

  * Get Started
  * Ecosystem
  * Mobile
  * Blog
  * Tutorials
  * Docs 

PyTorch

torchaudio

torchtext

torchvision

torcharrow

TorchData

TorchRec

TorchServe

TorchX

PyTorch on XLA Devices

  * Resources 

About

Learn about PyTorch’s features and capabilities

PyTorch Foundation

Learn about the PyTorch foundation

Community

Join the PyTorch developer community to contribute, learn, and get your
questions answered.

Community Stories

Learn how our community solves real, everyday machine learning problems with
PyTorch.

Developer Resources

Find resources and get questions answered

Events

Find events, webinars, and podcasts

Forums

A place to discuss PyTorch code, issues, install, research

Models (Beta)

Discover, publish, and reuse pre-trained models

  * GitHub

Table of Contents

2.1 ▼

Community

  * PyTorch Governance | Build + CI
  * PyTorch Contribution Guide
  * PyTorch Design Philosophy
  * PyTorch Governance | Mechanics
  * PyTorch Governance | Maintainers

Developer Notes

  * CUDA Automatic Mixed Precision examples
  * Autograd mechanics
  * Broadcasting semantics
  * CPU threading and TorchScript inference
  * CUDA semantics
  * Distributed Data Parallel
  * Extending PyTorch
  * Extending torch.func with autograd.Function
  * Frequently Asked Questions
  * Gradcheck mechanics
  * HIP (ROCm) semantics
  * Features for large-scale deployments
  * Modules
  * MPS backend
  * Multiprocessing best practices
  * Numerical accuracy
  * Reproducibility
  * Serialization semantics
  * Windows FAQ

Language Bindings

  * C++
  * Javadoc
  * torch::deploy

Python API

  * torch
  * torch.nn
  * torch.nn.functional
  * torch.Tensor
  * Tensor Attributes
  * Tensor Views
  * torch.amp
  * torch.autograd
  * torch.library
  * torch.cpu
  * torch.cuda
  * Understanding CUDA Memory Usage
  * Generating a Snapshot
  * Using the visualizer
  * Snapshot API Reference
  * torch.mps
  * torch.backends
  * torch.export
  * torch.distributed
  * torch.distributed.algorithms.join
  * torch.distributed.elastic
  * torch.distributed.fsdp
  * torch.distributed.optim
  * torch.distributed.tensor.parallel
  * torch.distributed.checkpoint
  * torch.distributions
  * torch.compiler
  * torch.fft
  * torch.func
  * torch.futures
  * torch.fx
  * torch.hub
  * torch.jit
  * torch.linalg
  * torch.monitor
  * torch.signal
  * torch.special
  * torch.overrides
  * torch.package
  * torch.profiler
  * torch.nn.init
  * torch.onnx
  * torch.optim
  * Complex Numbers
  * DDP Communication Hooks
  * Pipeline Parallelism
  * Quantization
  * Distributed RPC Framework
  * torch.random
  * torch.masked
  * torch.nested
  * torch.sparse
  * torch.Storage
  * torch.testing
  * torch.utils
  * torch.utils.benchmark
  * torch.utils.bottleneck
  * torch.utils.checkpoint
  * torch.utils.cpp_extension
  * torch.utils.data
  * torch.utils.jit
  * torch.utils.dlpack
  * torch.utils.mobile_optimizer
  * torch.utils.model_zoo
  * torch.utils.tensorboard
  * Type Info
  * Named Tensors
  * Named Tensors operator coverage
  * torch.__config__
  * torch._logging

Libraries

  * torchaudio
  * TorchData
  * TorchRec
  * TorchServe
  * torchtext
  * torchvision
  * PyTorch on XLA Devices

  * Docs  >
  * Extending torch.func with autograd.Function
  * ![](../_static/images/view-page-source-icon.svg)

Shortcuts

# Extending torch.func with autograd.Function¶

So you’d like to use `torch.autograd.Function` with the `torch.func`
transforms like `torch.vmap()`, `torch.func.grad()`, etc.

There are two main use cases:

  * you wish to call code that does not contain PyTorch operations and have it work with function transforms. That is, the `torch.autograd.Function`’s forward/backward/etc calls into functions from other systems like C++, CUDA, numpy.

  * you wish to specify custom gradient rules, like JAX’s custom_vjp/custom_jvp

PyTorch combines both of these concepts into `torch.autograd.Function`.

## Basic Usage¶

This guide assumes you are familiar with Extending torch.autograd, which
explains how to use `torch.autograd.Function`.

`torch.autograd.Function` can either have a `forward()` that accepts a ctx
object, or it can have separate `forward()` (that does not accept `ctx`) and a
`setup_context()` staticmethod that modifies the `ctx` object.

Only the latter is supported with function transforms:

  * `forward()` is the code that performs the operation and it should not accept a `ctx` object.

  * `setup_context(ctx, inputs, output)` is the code where you can call methods on `ctx`. Here is where you should save Tensors for backward (by calling `ctx.save_for_backward(*tensors)`), or save non-Tensors (by assigning them to the `ctx` object).

Because `setup_context()` accepts only `inputs` and `output`, the only
quantities that can be saved are either objects (such as Tensors) in the
inputs or outputs or quantities (like `Tensor.shape`) derived from them. If
you wish to save a non-input intermediate activation from `Function.forward()`
for backward, then you’ll need to return it as an output from `forward()` so
that it gets passed to `setup_context()`.

Depending on the transform,

  * to support reverse-mode AD (`torch.func.grad()`, `torch.func.vjp()`), the `torch.autograd.Function` needs a `backward()` staticmethod.

  * to support `torch.vmap()`, the `torch.autograd.Function` needs a `vmap()` staticmethod.

  * to support `torch.func.jvp()`, the `torch.autograd.Function` needs a `jvp()` staticmethod.

  * to support compositions of transforms (like `torch.func.jacrev()`, `torch.func.jacfwd()`, `torch.func.hessian()`) – you may need multiple of the above.

In order for the `torch.autograd.Function` to be arbitrarily composable with
function transforms, we recommend that all other staticmethods other than
`forward()` and `setup_context()` must be transformable: that is, they must
consist of only PyTorch operators or call other `torch.autograd.Function`
(that may call into C++/CUDA/etc).

Let’s go over some examples of common use cases.

### Example 1: autograd.Function calls into another system¶

A common case is a `torch.autograd.Function` with both forward() and
backward() calling into another system (like C++, CUDA, numpy, triton).

    
    
    import torch
    import numpy as np
    
    def to_numpy(tensor):
        return tensor.cpu().numpy()
    
    class NumpySort(torch.autograd.Function):
        # Note that forward does not take ctx
        @staticmethod
        def forward(x, dim):
            device = x.device
            x = to_numpy(x)
            ind = np.argsort(x, axis=dim)
            ind_inv = np.argsort(ind, axis=dim)
            result = np.take_along_axis(x, ind, axis=dim)
            # Any intermediates to be saved in backward must be returned as
            # outputs.
            return (
                # The desired output
                torch.tensor(result, device=device),
                # intermediate to save for backward
                torch.tensor(ind, device=device),
                # intermediate to save for backward
                torch.tensor(ind_inv, device=device),
            )
    
        # setup_context is responsible for calling methods and/or assigning to
        # the ctx object. Please do not do additional compute (e.g. add
        # Tensors together) in setup_context.
        @staticmethod
        def setup_context(ctx, inputs, output):
            x, dim = inputs
            # Note that output is whatever you returned from forward.
            # If you returned multiple values, then output is a Tuple of multiple values.
            # If you returned a single Tensor, then output is a Tensor.
            # If you returned a Tuple with a single Tensor, then output is a
            # Tuple with a single Tensor.
            _, ind, ind_inv = output
            ctx.mark_non_differentiable(ind, ind_inv)
            # Tensors must be saved via ctx.save_for_backward. Please do not
            # assign them directly onto the ctx object.
            ctx.save_for_backward(ind, ind_inv)
            # Non-tensors may be saved by assigning them as attributes on the ctx object.
            ctx.dim = dim
    
        @staticmethod
        def backward(ctx, grad_output, _0, _1):
            # For the autograd.Function to be arbitrarily composable with function
            # transforms, all staticmethod other than forward and setup_context
            # must be implemented in a "transformable" way; that is, they must
            # only consist of PyTorch operations or autograd.Function.
            #
            # For example, this allows us to do double backwards and/or compute
            # second order gradients.
            #
            # We've written the backward pass of NumpySort in terms of another
            # autograd.Function, NumpyTake.
            ind, ind_inv = ctx.saved_tensors
            return NumpyTake.apply(grad_output, ind_inv, ind, ctx.dim), None
    
    class NumpyTake(torch.autograd.Function):
        @staticmethod
        def forward(x, ind, ind_inv, dim):
            device = x.device
            x = to_numpy(x)
            ind = to_numpy(ind)
            return torch.tensor(np.take_along_axis(x, ind, dim), device=device)
    
        @staticmethod
        def setup_context(ctx, inputs, output):
            x, ind, ind_inv, dim = inputs
            ctx.save_for_backward(ind, ind_inv)
            ctx.dim = dim
    
        @staticmethod
        def backward(ctx, grad_output):
            ind, ind_inv = ctx.saved_tensors
            result = NumpyTake.apply(grad_output, ind_inv, ind, ctx.dim)
            return result, None, None, None
    

Now, to make it easier to use `NumpySort` (to hide away the intermediates we
returned as outputs, as well as allow default args and kwargs), we create a
new function that invokes it:

    
    
    def numpy_sort(x, dim=-1):
        result, _, _ = NumpySort.apply(x, dim)
        return result
    

And here’s a sanity check:

    
    
    x = torch.randn(2, 3)
    grad_x = torch.func.grad(lambda x: numpy_sort(x).sum())(x)
    assert torch.allclose(grad_x, torch.ones_like(x))
    

### Example 2: autograd.Function specifies custom gradient rules¶

Another common case is an `torch.autograd.Function` that is implemented with
PyTorch operations. PyTorch is able to compute gradients for PyTorch
operations automatically, but perhaps we wish to customize how the gradients
are computed. Some reasons why we may want a custom backward different from
the one PyTorch gives us are:

  * improving numeric stability

  * changing the performance characteristics of the backward

  * changing how edge cases are handled (e.g. nans, inf)

  * modifying the gradient (e.g. gradient clipping)

Here’s an example of an `torch.autograd.Function` for the function `y = x **
3` where we change the performance characteristics (some computation that
would normally happen during the backward pass, computing dx, happens in the
forward pass).

    
    
    class MyCube(torch.autograd.Function):
        @staticmethod
        def forward(x):
            result = x ** 3
            # In regular PyTorch, if we had just run y = x ** 3, then the backward
            # pass computes dx = 3 * x ** 2. In this autograd.Function, we've done
            # that computation here in the forward pass instead.
            dx = 3 * x ** 2
            return result, dx
    
        @staticmethod
        def setup_context(ctx, inputs, output):
            x, = inputs
            result, dx = output
            ctx.save_for_backward(x, dx)
    
        @staticmethod
        def backward(ctx, grad_output, grad_dx):
            x, dx = ctx.saved_tensors
            # In order for the autograd.Function to work with higher-order
            # gradients, we must add the gradient contribution of `dx`.
            result = grad_output * dx + grad_dx * 6 * x
            return result
    

Now, to make it easier to use `NumpySort` (and hide away the intermediates we
returned as outputs) we create a new function that invokes it:

    
    
    def my_cube(x):
        result, _ = MyCube.apply(x)
        return result
    

Here’s a sanity check computing the second-order gradients:

    
    
    x = torch.randn([])
    ggx = torch.func.grad(torch.func.grad(my_cube))(x)
    assert torch.allclose(ggx, 6 * x)
    

### Limitations and gotchas¶

Warning

Please read these limitations of `torch.autograd.Function` with torch.func
transforms carefully. We are not able to catch many of these situations and
error out gracefully so they will lead to undefined behavior.

Please do not capture Tensors that are being transformed over, have
requires_grad=True, or are dual tensors, into the methods of the
`torch.autograd.Function`. The way to be completely safe is to ensure that the
only Tensors being used inside any method of the `torch.autograd.Function`
must be directly passed as inputs (or via the ctx object) rather than come
from outside the `torch.autograd.Function`.

`torch.autograd.Function` does not handle Tensors in pytrees (arbitrary nested
Python data structures that may or may not contain Tensors). For those Tensors
to be tracked by autograd, they must be passed directly as an argument to
`torch.autograd.Function`. This is in contrast to jax.{custom_vjp,
custom_jvp}, which do accept pytrees.

Please only use `save_for_backward()` or `save_for_forward()` to save Tensors.
Please do not assign Tensors or collections of Tensors directly onto the ctx
object - these Tensors will not get tracked

## `torch.vmap()` Support¶

To use an `torch.autograd.Function` with `torch.vmap()`, you must either:

  * provide a `vmap()` staticmethod that tells us the behavior of the `torch.autograd.Function` under `torch.vmap()`

  * ask us to autogenerate it by setting `generate_vmap_rule=True`.

### Automatically generate a vmap rule¶

If your `torch.autograd.Function` fulfills the following additional
constraints, then we are able to generate a vmap rule for it. If it doesn’t
fulfill the constraints or if you want custom behavior under vmap, please
manually define a vmap staticmethod (see next section).

Warning

We are not easily able to check for the following constraints and error out
gracefully. Violation of the constraints may lead to undefined behavior.

  * The `torch.autograd.Function`’s `forward()`, `backward()` (if it exists) and `jvp()` (if it exists) staticmethods must be transformable via `torch.vmap()`. That is, they must consist of only PyTorch operations (as opposed to e.g. NumPy or custom CUDA kernels).

Example:

    
    
    class MyCube(torch.autograd.Function):
        # Set generate_vmap_rule to True to ask PyTorch to automatically generate
        # a vmap rule.
        generate_vmap_rule = True
    
        @staticmethod
        def forward(x):
            result = x ** 3
            dx = 3 * x ** 2
            return result, dx
    
        @staticmethod
        def setup_context(ctx, inputs, output):
            x, = inputs
            result, dx = output
            ctx.save_for_backward(x, dx)
    
        @staticmethod
        def backward(ctx, grad_output, grad_dx):
            x, dx = ctx.saved_tensors
            result = grad_output * dx + grad_dx * 6 * x
            return result
    
    def my_cube(x):
        result, dx = MyCube.apply(x)
        return result
    
    x = torch.randn(3)
    result = torch.vmap(my_cube)(x)
    assert torch.allclose(result, x ** 3)
    

### Defining the vmap staticmethod¶

If your `torch.autograd.Function` calls into another system (like NumPy, C++,
CUDA, triton), then to get it to work with `torch.vmap()` or transforms that
use it, you’ll need to manually define a `vmap()` staticmethod.

Depending on what transforms you want to use and your use case, you may not
need to add a `vmap()` staticmethod to all of your `torch.autograd.Function`:

  * For example, `torch.func.jacrev()` performs `vmap()` over the backward pass. So if you’re only interested in using `torch.func.jacrev()`, only the `backward()` staticmethod needs to be vmappable.

We do recommend ensuring all of your `torch.autograd.Function` have support
for `torch.vmap()` though, especially if you are writing a third-party library
and you want your `torch.autograd.Function` to work with all combinations of
`torch.func()` transforms.

Conceptually, the vmap staticmethod is responsible for defining how the
`forward()` should behave under `torch.vmap()`. That is, it defines how to
transform the `forward()` to run over inputs with an additional dimension (the
dimension being vmapped over). This is similar to how `torch.vmap()` is
implemented over PyTorch operations: for each operation, we define a vmap rule
(sometimes also referred to as a “batching rule”).

Here’s how to define the `vmap()` staticmethod:

  * the signature is `vmap(info, in_dims: Tuple[Optional[int]], *args)`, where `*args` is the same as the args to `forward()`.

  * The vmap staticmethod is responsible for defining how the `forward()` should behave under `torch.vmap()`. That is, given inputs with an additional dimension (specified by `in_dims`), how do we compute the batched version of `forward()`?

  * For each arg in `args`, `in_dims` has a corresponding `Optional[int]`. It is `None` if the arg is not a Tensor or if the arg is not being vmapped over, otherwise, it is an integer specifying what dimension of the Tensor is being vmapped over.

  * `info` is a collection of additional metadata that may be helpful: `info.batch_size` specifies the size of the dimension being vmapped over, while `info.randomness` is the `randomness` option that was passed to `torch.vmap()`.

  * The return of the vmap staticmethod is a tuple of `(output, out_dims)`. Similar to `in_dims`, `out_dims` should be of the same structure as `output` and contain one `out_dim` per output that specifies if the output has the vmapped dimension and what index it is in.

Example:

    
    
    def to_numpy(tensor):
        return tensor.cpu().numpy()
    
    class NumpySort(torch.autograd.Function):
        @staticmethod
        def forward(x, dim):
            device = x.device
            x = to_numpy(x)
            ind = np.argsort(x, axis=dim)
            ind_inv = np.argsort(ind, axis=dim)
            result = np.take_along_axis(x, ind, axis=dim)
            return (
                torch.tensor(result, device=device),
                torch.tensor(ind, device=device),
                torch.tensor(ind_inv, device=device),
            )
    
        @staticmethod
        def setup_context(ctx, inputs, output):
            x, dim = inputs
            _, ind, ind_inv = output
            ctx.mark_non_differentiable(ind, ind_inv)
            ctx.save_for_backward(ind, ind_inv)
            ctx.dim = dim
    
        @staticmethod
        def backward(ctx, grad_output, _0, _1):
            return NumpyTake.apply(grad_output, ind_inv, ind, ctx.dim), None
    
        # The signature of the vmap staticmethod is:
        # vmap(info, in_dims: Tuple[Optional[int]], *args)
        # where *args is the same as the arguments to `forward`.
        @staticmethod
        def vmap(info, in_dims, x, dim):
            # For every input (x and dim), in_dims stores an Optional[int]
            # that is:
            # - None if the input is not being vmapped over or if the input
            #   is not a Tensor
            # - an integer if the input is being vmapped over that represents
            #   the index of the dimension being vmapped over.
            x_bdim, _ = in_dims
    
            # A "vmap rule" is the logic of how to perform the operation given
            # inputs with one additional dimension. In NumpySort, x has an
            # additional dimension (x_bdim). The vmap rule is simply
            # to call NumpySort again but pass it a different `dim`.
            x = x.movedim(x_bdim, 0)
            # Handle negative dims correctly
            dim = dim if dim >= 0 else dim + x.dim() - 1
            result = NumpySort.apply(x, dim + 1)
    
            # The vmap rule must return a tuple of two things
            # 1. the output. Should be the same amount of things
            #    as returned by the forward().
            # 2. one Optional[int] for each output specifying if each output
            # is being vmapped over, and if so, the index of the
            # dimension being vmapped over.
            #
            # NumpySort.forward returns a Tuple of 3 Tensors. Since we moved the
            # dimension being vmapped over to the front of `x`, that appears at
            # dimension 0 of all outputs.
            # The return is (output, out_dims) -- output is a tuple of 3 Tensors
            # and out_dims is a Tuple of 3 Optional[int]
            return NumpySort.apply(x, dim + 1), (0, 0, 0)
    
    class NumpyTake(torch.autograd.Function):
        @staticmethod
        def forward(x, ind, ind_inv, dim):
            device = x.device
            x = to_numpy(x)
            ind = to_numpy(ind)
            return torch.tensor(np.take_along_axis(x, ind, dim), device=device)
    
        @staticmethod
        def setup_context(ctx, inputs, output):
            x, ind, ind_inv, dim = inputs
            ctx.save_for_backward(ind, ind_inv)
            ctx.dim = dim
    
        @staticmethod
        def backward(ctx, grad_output):
            ind, ind_inv = ctx.saved_tensors
            result = NumpyTake.apply(grad_output, ind_inv, ind, ctx.dim)
            return result, None, None, None
    
        @staticmethod
        def vmap(info, in_dims, x, ind, ind_inv, dim):
            x_bdim, ind_bdim, ind_inv_bdim, _ = in_dims
    
            # The strategy is: expand {x, ind, ind_inv} to all have the dimension
            # being vmapped over.
            # Then, call back into NumpyTake(expanded_x, expanded_ind, expanded_ind_inv, new_dim).
    
            # Handle negative dims by wrapping them to be positive
            logical_dim = x.dim() if x_bdim is None else x_bdim - 1
            dim = dim if dim >= 0 else dim + logical_dim
    
            def maybe_expand_bdim_at_front(x, x_bdim):
                if x_bdim is None:
                    return x.expand(info.batch_size, *x.shape)
                return x.movedim(x_bdim, 0)
    
            # If the Tensor doesn't have the dimension being vmapped over,
            # expand it out. Otherwise, move it to the front of the Tensor
            x = maybe_expand_bdim_at_front(x, x_bdim)
            ind = maybe_expand_bdim_at_front(ind, ind_bdim)
            ind_inv = maybe_expand_bdim_at_front(ind_inv, ind_inv_bdim)
    
            # The return is a tuple (output, out_dims). Since output is a Tensor,
            # then out_dims is an Optional[int] (instead of being a Tuple).
            return NumpyTake.apply(x, ind, ind_inv, dim + 1), 0
    
    def numpy_sort(x, dim=-1):
        result, _, _ = NumpySort.apply(x, dim)
        return result
    
    x = torch.randn(2, 3)
    result = torch.vmap(numpy_sort)(x)
    assert torch.allclose(result, numpy_sort(result, 1))
    

Note

The vmap staticmethod should aim to preserve the semantics of the entire
`Function`. That is, (pseudocode) `grad(vmap(MyFunc))` should be replaceable
with a `grad(map(MyFunc))`.

If your autograd.Function has any custom behavior in the backward pass, please
keep this in mind.

Note

It is a legitimate use case to write a custom vmap staticmethod for a
`Function` that PyTorch is able to generate a vmap rule for via
`generate_vmap_rule=True`. You may wish to do this if the generated vmap rule
doesn’t have the semantics you’re looking for.

## `torch.func.jvp()` Support¶

To support forward-mode AD, a `torch.autograd.Function` must have a `jvp()`
staticmethod. Please see Forward mode AD for details.

Next ![](../_static/images/chevron-right-orange.svg)
![](../_static/images/chevron-right-orange.svg) Previous

* * *

(C) Copyright 2023, PyTorch Contributors.

Built with Sphinx using a theme provided by Read the Docs.

  * Extending torch.func with autograd.Function
    * Basic Usage
      * Example 1: autograd.Function calls into another system
      * Example 2: autograd.Function specifies custom gradient rules
      * Limitations and gotchas
    * `torch.vmap()` Support
      * Automatically generate a vmap rule
      * Defining the vmap staticmethod
    * `torch.func.jvp()` Support

![](https://www.googleadservices.com/pagead/conversion/795629140/?label=txkmCPmdtosBENSssfsC&guid=ON&script=0)

## Docs

Access comprehensive developer documentation for PyTorch

View Docs

## Tutorials

Get in-depth tutorials for beginners and advanced developers

View Tutorials

## Resources

Find development resources and get your questions answered

View Resources

  * PyTorch
  * Get Started
  * Features
  * Ecosystem
  * Blog
  * Contributing

  * Resources
  * Tutorials
  * Docs
  * Discuss
  * Github Issues
  * Brand Guidelines

  * Stay up to date
  * Facebook
  * Twitter
  * YouTube
  * LinkedIn

  * PyTorch Podcasts
  * Spotify
  * Apple
  * Google
  * Amazon

  * Terms
  * |
  * Privacy

© Copyright The Linux Foundation. The PyTorch Foundation is a project of The
Linux Foundation. For web site terms of use, trademark policy and other
policies applicable to The PyTorch Foundation please see
www.linuxfoundation.org/policies/. The PyTorch Foundation supports the PyTorch
open source project, which has been established as PyTorch Project a Series of
LF Projects, LLC. For policies applicable to the PyTorch Project a Series of
LF Projects, LLC, please see www.lfprojects.org/policies/.

To analyze traffic and optimize your experience, we serve cookies on this
site. By clicking or navigating, you agree to allow our usage of cookies. As
the current maintainers of this site, Facebook’s Cookies Policy applies. Learn
more, including about available controls: Cookies Policy.

![](../_static/images/pytorch-x.svg)

  * Get Started
  * Ecosystem
  * Mobile
  * Blog
  * Tutorials
  * Docs 
    * PyTorch
    * torchaudio
    * torchtext
    * torchvision
    * torcharrow
    * TorchData
    * TorchRec
    * TorchServe
    * TorchX
    * PyTorch on XLA Devices
  * Resources 
    * About
    * PyTorch Foundation
    * Community
    * Community Stories
    * Developer Resources
    * Events
    * Forums
    * Models (Beta)
  * Github

