

  * Get Started
  * Ecosystem
  * Mobile
  * Blog
  * Tutorials
  * Docs 

PyTorch

torchaudio

torchtext

torchvision

torcharrow

TorchData

TorchRec

TorchServe

TorchX

PyTorch on XLA Devices

  * Resources 

About

Learn about PyTorch’s features and capabilities

PyTorch Foundation

Learn about the PyTorch foundation

Community

Join the PyTorch developer community to contribute, learn, and get your
questions answered.

Community Stories

Learn how our community solves real, everyday machine learning problems with
PyTorch.

Developer Resources

Find resources and get questions answered

Events

Find events, webinars, and podcasts

Forums

A place to discuss PyTorch code, issues, install, research

Models (Beta)

Discover, publish, and reuse pre-trained models

  * GitHub

Table of Contents

2.1 ▼

Community

  * PyTorch Governance | Build + CI
  * PyTorch Contribution Guide
  * PyTorch Design Philosophy
  * PyTorch Governance | Mechanics
  * PyTorch Governance | Maintainers

Developer Notes

  * CUDA Automatic Mixed Precision examples
  * Autograd mechanics
  * Broadcasting semantics
  * CPU threading and TorchScript inference
  * CUDA semantics
  * Distributed Data Parallel
  * Extending PyTorch
  * Extending torch.func with autograd.Function
  * Frequently Asked Questions
  * Gradcheck mechanics
  * HIP (ROCm) semantics
  * Features for large-scale deployments
  * Modules
  * MPS backend
  * Multiprocessing best practices
  * Numerical accuracy
  * Reproducibility
  * Serialization semantics
  * Windows FAQ

Language Bindings

  * C++
  * Javadoc
  * torch::deploy

Python API

  * torch
  * torch.nn
  * torch.nn.functional
  * torch.Tensor
  * Tensor Attributes
  * Tensor Views
  * torch.amp
  * torch.autograd
  * torch.library
  * torch.cpu
  * torch.cuda
  * Understanding CUDA Memory Usage
  * Generating a Snapshot
  * Using the visualizer
  * Snapshot API Reference
  * torch.mps
  * torch.backends
  * torch.export
  * torch.distributed
  * torch.distributed.algorithms.join
  * torch.distributed.elastic
  * torch.distributed.fsdp
  * torch.distributed.optim
  * torch.distributed.tensor.parallel
  * torch.distributed.checkpoint
  * torch.distributions
  * torch.compiler
  * torch.fft
  * torch.func
  * torch.futures
  * torch.fx
  * torch.hub
  * torch.jit
  * torch.linalg
  * torch.monitor
  * torch.signal
  * torch.special
  * torch.overrides
  * torch.package
  * torch.profiler
  * torch.nn.init
  * torch.onnx
  * torch.optim
  * Complex Numbers
  * DDP Communication Hooks
  * Pipeline Parallelism
  * Quantization
  * Distributed RPC Framework
  * torch.random
  * torch.masked
  * torch.nested
  * torch.sparse
  * torch.Storage
  * torch.testing
  * torch.utils
  * torch.utils.benchmark
  * torch.utils.bottleneck
  * torch.utils.checkpoint
  * torch.utils.cpp_extension
  * torch.utils.data
  * torch.utils.jit
  * torch.utils.dlpack
  * torch.utils.mobile_optimizer
  * torch.utils.model_zoo
  * torch.utils.tensorboard
  * Type Info
  * Named Tensors
  * Named Tensors operator coverage
  * torch.__config__
  * torch._logging

Libraries

  * torchaudio
  * TorchData
  * TorchRec
  * TorchServe
  * torchtext
  * torchvision
  * PyTorch on XLA Devices

  * Docs  >
  * torch.nn >
  * ParameterDict
  * ![](../_static/images/view-page-source-icon.svg)

Shortcuts

# ParameterDict¶

_class _torch.nn.ParameterDict( _parameters =None_)[source]¶

    

Holds parameters in a dictionary.

ParameterDict can be indexed like a regular Python dictionary, but Parameters
it contains are properly registered, and will be visible by all Module
methods. Other objects are treated as would be done by a regular Python
dictionary

`ParameterDict` is an **ordered** dictionary. `update()` with other unordered
mapping types (e.g., Python’s plain `dict`) does not preserve the order of the
merged mapping. On the other hand, `OrderedDict` or another `ParameterDict`
will preserve their ordering.

Note that the constructor, assigning an element of the dictionary and the
`update()` method will convert any `Tensor` into `Parameter`.

Parameters

    

**values** ( _iterable_ _,_ _optional_ ) – a mapping (dictionary) of (string :
Any) or an iterable of key-value pairs of type (string, Any)

Example:

    
    
    class MyModule(nn.Module):
        def __init__(self):
            super().__init__()
            self.params = nn.ParameterDict({
                    'left': nn.Parameter(torch.randn(5, 10)),
                    'right': nn.Parameter(torch.randn(5, 10))
            })
    
        def forward(self, x, choice):
            x = self.params[choice].mm(x)
            return x
    

clear()[source]¶

    

Remove all items from the ParameterDict.

copy()[source]¶

    

Returns a copy of this `ParameterDict` instance.

Return type

    

_ParameterDict_

fromkeys( _keys_ , _default =None_)[source]¶

    

Return a new ParameterDict with the keys provided

Parameters

    

  * **keys** ( _iterable_ _,_ _string_ ) – keys to make the new ParameterDict from

  * **default** ( _Parameter_ _,_ _optional_ ) – value to set for all keys

Return type

    

_ParameterDict_

get( _key_ , _default =None_)[source]¶

    

Return the parameter associated with key if present. Otherwise return default
if provided, None if not.

Parameters

    

  * **key** ( _str_) – key to get from the ParameterDict

  * **default** ( _Parameter_ _,_ _optional_ ) – value to return if key not present

Return type

    

_Any_

items()[source]¶

    

Return an iterable of the ParameterDict key/value pairs.

Return type

    

_Iterable_[ _Tuple_[str, _Any_]]

keys()[source]¶

    

Return an iterable of the ParameterDict keys.

Return type

    

_Iterable_[str]

pop( _key_ )[source]¶

    

Remove key from the ParameterDict and return its parameter.

Parameters

    

**key** ( _str_) – key to pop from the ParameterDict

Return type

    

_Any_

popitem()[source]¶

    

Remove and return the last inserted (key, parameter) pair from the
ParameterDict

Return type

    

_Tuple_[str, _Any_]

setdefault( _key_ , _default =None_)[source]¶

    

If key is in the ParameterDict, return its value. If not, insert key with a
parameter default and return default. default defaults to None.

Parameters

    

  * **key** ( _str_) – key to set default for

  * **default** ( _Any_ ) – the parameter set to the key

Return type

    

_Any_

update( _parameters_ )[source]¶

    

Update the `ParameterDict` with the key-value pairs from a mapping or an
iterable, overwriting existing keys.

Note

If `parameters` is an `OrderedDict`, a `ParameterDict`, or an iterable of key-
value pairs, the order of new elements in it is preserved.

Parameters

    

**parameters** ( _iterable_ ) – a mapping (dictionary) from string to
`Parameter`, or an iterable of key-value pairs of type (string, `Parameter`)

values()[source]¶

    

Return an iterable of the ParameterDict values.

Return type

    

_Iterable_[ _Any_]

Next ![](../_static/images/chevron-right-orange.svg)
![](../_static/images/chevron-right-orange.svg) Previous

* * *

(C) Copyright 2023, PyTorch Contributors.

Built with Sphinx using a theme provided by Read the Docs.

  * ParameterDict
    * `ParameterDict`
      * `ParameterDict.clear()`
      * `ParameterDict.copy()`
      * `ParameterDict.fromkeys()`
      * `ParameterDict.get()`
      * `ParameterDict.items()`
      * `ParameterDict.keys()`
      * `ParameterDict.pop()`
      * `ParameterDict.popitem()`
      * `ParameterDict.setdefault()`
      * `ParameterDict.update()`
      * `ParameterDict.values()`

![](https://www.googleadservices.com/pagead/conversion/795629140/?label=txkmCPmdtosBENSssfsC&guid=ON&script=0)

## Docs

Access comprehensive developer documentation for PyTorch

View Docs

## Tutorials

Get in-depth tutorials for beginners and advanced developers

View Tutorials

## Resources

Find development resources and get your questions answered

View Resources

  * PyTorch
  * Get Started
  * Features
  * Ecosystem
  * Blog
  * Contributing

  * Resources
  * Tutorials
  * Docs
  * Discuss
  * Github Issues
  * Brand Guidelines

  * Stay up to date
  * Facebook
  * Twitter
  * YouTube
  * LinkedIn

  * PyTorch Podcasts
  * Spotify
  * Apple
  * Google
  * Amazon

  * Terms
  * |
  * Privacy

© Copyright The Linux Foundation. The PyTorch Foundation is a project of The
Linux Foundation. For web site terms of use, trademark policy and other
policies applicable to The PyTorch Foundation please see
www.linuxfoundation.org/policies/. The PyTorch Foundation supports the PyTorch
open source project, which has been established as PyTorch Project a Series of
LF Projects, LLC. For policies applicable to the PyTorch Project a Series of
LF Projects, LLC, please see www.lfprojects.org/policies/.

To analyze traffic and optimize your experience, we serve cookies on this
site. By clicking or navigating, you agree to allow our usage of cookies. As
the current maintainers of this site, Facebook’s Cookies Policy applies. Learn
more, including about available controls: Cookies Policy.

![](../_static/images/pytorch-x.svg)

  * Get Started
  * Ecosystem
  * Mobile
  * Blog
  * Tutorials
  * Docs 
    * PyTorch
    * torchaudio
    * torchtext
    * torchvision
    * torcharrow
    * TorchData
    * TorchRec
    * TorchServe
    * TorchX
    * PyTorch on XLA Devices
  * Resources 
    * About
    * PyTorch Foundation
    * Community
    * Community Stories
    * Developer Resources
    * Events
    * Forums
    * Models (Beta)
  * Github

