

  * Get Started
  * Ecosystem
  * Mobile
  * Blog
  * Tutorials
  * Docs 

PyTorch

torchaudio

torchtext

torchvision

torcharrow

TorchData

TorchRec

TorchServe

TorchX

PyTorch on XLA Devices

  * Resources 

About

Learn about PyTorch’s features and capabilities

PyTorch Foundation

Learn about the PyTorch foundation

Community

Join the PyTorch developer community to contribute, learn, and get your
questions answered.

Community Stories

Learn how our community solves real, everyday machine learning problems with
PyTorch.

Developer Resources

Find resources and get questions answered

Events

Find events, webinars, and podcasts

Forums

A place to discuss PyTorch code, issues, install, research

Models (Beta)

Discover, publish, and reuse pre-trained models

  * GitHub

Table of Contents

2.1 ▼

Community

  * PyTorch Governance | Build + CI
  * PyTorch Contribution Guide
  * PyTorch Design Philosophy
  * PyTorch Governance | Mechanics
  * PyTorch Governance | Maintainers

Developer Notes

  * CUDA Automatic Mixed Precision examples
  * Autograd mechanics
  * Broadcasting semantics
  * CPU threading and TorchScript inference
  * CUDA semantics
  * Distributed Data Parallel
  * Extending PyTorch
  * Extending torch.func with autograd.Function
  * Frequently Asked Questions
  * Gradcheck mechanics
  * HIP (ROCm) semantics
  * Features for large-scale deployments
  * Modules
  * MPS backend
  * Multiprocessing best practices
  * Numerical accuracy
  * Reproducibility
  * Serialization semantics
  * Windows FAQ

Language Bindings

  * C++
  * Javadoc
  * torch::deploy

Python API

  * torch
  * torch.nn
  * torch.nn.functional
  * torch.Tensor
  * Tensor Attributes
  * Tensor Views
  * torch.amp
  * torch.autograd
  * torch.library
  * torch.cpu
  * torch.cuda
  * Understanding CUDA Memory Usage
  * Generating a Snapshot
  * Using the visualizer
  * Snapshot API Reference
  * torch.mps
  * torch.backends
  * torch.export
  * torch.distributed
  * torch.distributed.algorithms.join
  * torch.distributed.elastic
  * torch.distributed.fsdp
  * torch.distributed.optim
  * torch.distributed.tensor.parallel
  * torch.distributed.checkpoint
  * torch.distributions
  * torch.compiler
  * torch.fft
  * torch.func
  * torch.futures
  * torch.fx
  * torch.hub
  * torch.jit
  * torch.linalg
  * torch.monitor
  * torch.signal
  * torch.special
  * torch.overrides
  * torch.package
  * torch.profiler
  * torch.nn.init
  * torch.onnx
  * torch.optim
  * Complex Numbers
  * DDP Communication Hooks
  * Pipeline Parallelism
  * Quantization
  * Distributed RPC Framework
  * torch.random
  * torch.masked
  * torch.nested
  * torch.sparse
  * torch.Storage
  * torch.testing
  * torch.utils
  * torch.utils.benchmark
  * torch.utils.bottleneck
  * torch.utils.checkpoint
  * torch.utils.cpp_extension
  * torch.utils.data
  * torch.utils.jit
  * torch.utils.dlpack
  * torch.utils.mobile_optimizer
  * torch.utils.model_zoo
  * torch.utils.tensorboard
  * Type Info
  * Named Tensors
  * Named Tensors operator coverage
  * torch.__config__
  * torch._logging

Libraries

  * torchaudio
  * TorchData
  * TorchRec
  * TorchServe
  * torchtext
  * torchvision
  * PyTorch on XLA Devices

  * Docs  >
  * torch.func >
  * torch.func API Reference >
  * torch.func.jacrev
  * ![](../_static/images/view-page-source-icon.svg)

Shortcuts

# torch.func.jacrev¶

torch.func.jacrev( _func_ , _argnums =0_, _*_ , _has_aux =False_, _chunk_size
=None_, __preallocate_and_copy =False_)¶

    

Computes the Jacobian of `func` with respect to the arg(s) at index `argnum`
using reverse mode autodiff

Note

Using `chunk_size=1` is equivalent to computing the jacobian row-by-row with a
for-loop i.e. the constraints of `vmap()` are not applicable.

Parameters

    

  * **func** ( _function_ ) – A Python function that takes one or more arguments, one of which must be a Tensor, and returns one or more Tensors

  * **argnums** ( _int_ _or_ _Tuple_ _[_ _int_ _]_ ) – Optional, integer or tuple of integers, saying which arguments to get the Jacobian with respect to. Default: 0.

  * **has_aux** ( _bool_) – Flag indicating that `func` returns a `(output, aux)` tuple where the first element is the output of the function to be differentiated and the second element is auxiliary objects that will not be differentiated. Default: False.

  * **chunk_size** ( _None_ _or_ _int_) – If None (default), use the maximum chunk size (equivalent to doing a single vmap over vjp to compute the jacobian). If 1, then compute the jacobian row-by-row with a for-loop. If not None, then compute the jacobian `chunk_size` rows at a time (equivalent to doing multiple vmap over vjp). If you run into memory issues computing the jacobian, please try to specify a non-None chunk_size.

Returns

    

Returns a function that takes in the same inputs as `func` and returns the
Jacobian of `func` with respect to the arg(s) at `argnums`. If `has_aux is
True`, then the returned function instead returns a `(jacobian, aux)` tuple
where `jacobian` is the Jacobian and `aux` is auxiliary objects returned by
`func`.

A basic usage with a pointwise, unary operation will give a diagonal array as
the Jacobian

    
    
    >>> from torch.func import jacrev
    >>> x = torch.randn(5)
    >>> jacobian = jacrev(torch.sin)(x)
    >>> expected = torch.diag(torch.cos(x))
    >>> assert torch.allclose(jacobian, expected)
    

If you would like to compute the output of the function as well as the
jacobian of the function, use the `has_aux` flag to return the output as an
auxiliary object:

    
    
    >>> from torch.func import jacrev
    >>> x = torch.randn(5)
    >>>
    >>> def f(x):
    >>>   return x.sin()
    >>>
    >>> def g(x):
    >>>   result = f(x)
    >>>   return result, result
    >>>
    >>> jacobian_f, f_x = jacrev(g, has_aux=True)(x)
    >>> assert torch.allclose(f_x, f(x))
    

`jacrev()` can be composed with vmap to produce batched Jacobians:

    
    
    >>> from torch.func import jacrev, vmap
    >>> x = torch.randn(64, 5)
    >>> jacobian = vmap(jacrev(torch.sin))(x)
    >>> assert jacobian.shape == (64, 5, 5)
    

Additionally, `jacrev()` can be composed with itself to produce Hessians

    
    
    >>> from torch.func import jacrev
    >>> def f(x):
    >>>   return x.sin().sum()
    >>>
    >>> x = torch.randn(5)
    >>> hessian = jacrev(jacrev(f))(x)
    >>> assert torch.allclose(hessian, torch.diag(-x.sin()))
    

By default, `jacrev()` computes the Jacobian with respect to the first input.
However, it can compute the Jacboian with respect to a different argument by
using `argnums`:

    
    
    >>> from torch.func import jacrev
    >>> def f(x, y):
    >>>   return x + y ** 2
    >>>
    >>> x, y = torch.randn(5), torch.randn(5)
    >>> jacobian = jacrev(f, argnums=1)(x, y)
    >>> expected = torch.diag(2 * y)
    >>> assert torch.allclose(jacobian, expected)
    

Additionally, passing a tuple to `argnums` will compute the Jacobian with
respect to multiple arguments

    
    
    >>> from torch.func import jacrev
    >>> def f(x, y):
    >>>   return x + y ** 2
    >>>
    >>> x, y = torch.randn(5), torch.randn(5)
    >>> jacobian = jacrev(f, argnums=(0, 1))(x, y)
    >>> expectedX = torch.diag(torch.ones_like(x))
    >>> expectedY = torch.diag(2 * y)
    >>> assert torch.allclose(jacobian[0], expectedX)
    >>> assert torch.allclose(jacobian[1], expectedY)
    

Note

Using PyTorch `torch.no_grad` together with `jacrev`. Case 1: Using
`torch.no_grad` inside a function:

    
    
    >>> def f(x):
    >>>     with torch.no_grad():
    >>>         c = x ** 2
    >>>     return x - c
    

In this case, `jacrev(f)(x)` will respect the inner `torch.no_grad`.

Case 2: Using `jacrev` inside `torch.no_grad` context manager:

    
    
    >>> with torch.no_grad():
    >>>     jacrev(f)(x)
    

In this case, `jacrev` will respect the inner `torch.no_grad`, but not the
outer one. This is because `jacrev` is a “function transform”: its result
should not depend on the result of a context manager outside of `f`.

Next ![](../_static/images/chevron-right-orange.svg)
![](../_static/images/chevron-right-orange.svg) Previous

* * *

(C) Copyright 2023, PyTorch Contributors.

Built with Sphinx using a theme provided by Read the Docs.

  * torch.func.jacrev
    * `jacrev()`

![](https://www.googleadservices.com/pagead/conversion/795629140/?label=txkmCPmdtosBENSssfsC&guid=ON&script=0)

## Docs

Access comprehensive developer documentation for PyTorch

View Docs

## Tutorials

Get in-depth tutorials for beginners and advanced developers

View Tutorials

## Resources

Find development resources and get your questions answered

View Resources

  * PyTorch
  * Get Started
  * Features
  * Ecosystem
  * Blog
  * Contributing

  * Resources
  * Tutorials
  * Docs
  * Discuss
  * Github Issues
  * Brand Guidelines

  * Stay up to date
  * Facebook
  * Twitter
  * YouTube
  * LinkedIn

  * PyTorch Podcasts
  * Spotify
  * Apple
  * Google
  * Amazon

  * Terms
  * |
  * Privacy

© Copyright The Linux Foundation. The PyTorch Foundation is a project of The
Linux Foundation. For web site terms of use, trademark policy and other
policies applicable to The PyTorch Foundation please see
www.linuxfoundation.org/policies/. The PyTorch Foundation supports the PyTorch
open source project, which has been established as PyTorch Project a Series of
LF Projects, LLC. For policies applicable to the PyTorch Project a Series of
LF Projects, LLC, please see www.lfprojects.org/policies/.

To analyze traffic and optimize your experience, we serve cookies on this
site. By clicking or navigating, you agree to allow our usage of cookies. As
the current maintainers of this site, Facebook’s Cookies Policy applies. Learn
more, including about available controls: Cookies Policy.

![](../_static/images/pytorch-x.svg)

  * Get Started
  * Ecosystem
  * Mobile
  * Blog
  * Tutorials
  * Docs 
    * PyTorch
    * torchaudio
    * torchtext
    * torchvision
    * torcharrow
    * TorchData
    * TorchRec
    * TorchServe
    * TorchX
    * PyTorch on XLA Devices
  * Resources 
    * About
    * PyTorch Foundation
    * Community
    * Community Stories
    * Developer Resources
    * Events
    * Forums
    * Models (Beta)
  * Github

