

  * Get Started
  * Ecosystem
  * Mobile
  * Blog
  * Tutorials
  * Docs 

PyTorch

torchaudio

torchtext

torchvision

torcharrow

TorchData

TorchRec

TorchServe

TorchX

PyTorch on XLA Devices

  * Resources 

About

Learn about PyTorch’s features and capabilities

PyTorch Foundation

Learn about the PyTorch foundation

Community

Join the PyTorch developer community to contribute, learn, and get your
questions answered.

Community Stories

Learn how our community solves real, everyday machine learning problems with
PyTorch.

Developer Resources

Find resources and get questions answered

Events

Find events, webinars, and podcasts

Forums

A place to discuss PyTorch code, issues, install, research

Models (Beta)

Discover, publish, and reuse pre-trained models

  * GitHub

Table of Contents

2.1 ▼

Community

  * PyTorch Governance | Build + CI
  * PyTorch Contribution Guide
  * PyTorch Design Philosophy
  * PyTorch Governance | Mechanics
  * PyTorch Governance | Maintainers

Developer Notes

  * CUDA Automatic Mixed Precision examples
  * Autograd mechanics
  * Broadcasting semantics
  * CPU threading and TorchScript inference
  * CUDA semantics
  * Distributed Data Parallel
  * Extending PyTorch
  * Extending torch.func with autograd.Function
  * Frequently Asked Questions
  * Gradcheck mechanics
  * HIP (ROCm) semantics
  * Features for large-scale deployments
  * Modules
  * MPS backend
  * Multiprocessing best practices
  * Numerical accuracy
  * Reproducibility
  * Serialization semantics
  * Windows FAQ

Language Bindings

  * C++
  * Javadoc
  * torch::deploy

Python API

  * torch
  * torch.nn
  * torch.nn.functional
  * torch.Tensor
  * Tensor Attributes
  * Tensor Views
  * torch.amp
  * torch.autograd
  * torch.library
  * torch.cpu
  * torch.cuda
  * Understanding CUDA Memory Usage
  * Generating a Snapshot
  * Using the visualizer
  * Snapshot API Reference
  * torch.mps
  * torch.backends
  * torch.export
  * torch.distributed
  * torch.distributed.algorithms.join
  * torch.distributed.elastic
  * torch.distributed.fsdp
  * torch.distributed.optim
  * torch.distributed.tensor.parallel
  * torch.distributed.checkpoint
  * torch.distributions
  * torch.compiler
  * torch.fft
  * torch.func
  * torch.futures
  * torch.fx
  * torch.hub
  * torch.jit
  * torch.linalg
  * torch.monitor
  * torch.signal
  * torch.special
  * torch.overrides
  * torch.package
  * torch.profiler
  * torch.nn.init
  * torch.onnx
  * torch.optim
  * Complex Numbers
  * DDP Communication Hooks
  * Pipeline Parallelism
  * Quantization
  * Distributed RPC Framework
  * torch.random
  * torch.masked
  * torch.nested
  * torch.sparse
  * torch.Storage
  * torch.testing
  * torch.utils
  * torch.utils.benchmark
  * torch.utils.bottleneck
  * torch.utils.checkpoint
  * torch.utils.cpp_extension
  * torch.utils.data
  * torch.utils.jit
  * torch.utils.dlpack
  * torch.utils.mobile_optimizer
  * torch.utils.model_zoo
  * torch.utils.tensorboard
  * Type Info
  * Named Tensors
  * Named Tensors operator coverage
  * torch.__config__
  * torch._logging

Libraries

  * torchaudio
  * TorchData
  * TorchRec
  * TorchServe
  * torchtext
  * torchvision
  * PyTorch on XLA Devices

  * Docs  >
  * torch >
  * torch.tensor
  * ![](../_static/images/view-page-source-icon.svg)

Shortcuts

# torch.tensor¶

torch.tensor( _data_ , _*_ , _dtype =None_, _device =None_, _requires_grad
=False_, _pin_memory =False_) -> Tensor¶

    

Constructs a tensor with no autograd history (also known as a “leaf tensor”,
see Autograd mechanics) by copying `data`.

Warning

When working with tensors prefer using `torch.Tensor.clone()`,
`torch.Tensor.detach()`, and `torch.Tensor.requires_grad_()` for readability.
Letting t be a tensor, `torch.tensor(t)` is equivalent to
`t.clone().detach()`, and `torch.tensor(t, requires_grad=True)` is equivalent
to `t.clone().detach().requires_grad_(True)`.

See also

`torch.as_tensor()` preserves autograd history and avoids copies where
possible. `torch.from_numpy()` creates a tensor that shares storage with a
NumPy array.

Parameters

    

**data** ( _array_like_ ) – Initial data for the tensor. Can be a list, tuple,
NumPy `ndarray`, scalar, and other types.

Keyword Arguments

    

  * **dtype** (`torch.dtype`, optional) – the desired data type of returned tensor. Default: if `None`, infers data type from `data`.

  * **device** (`torch.device`, optional) – the device of the constructed tensor. If None and data is a tensor then the device of data is used. If None and data is not a tensor then the result tensor is constructed on the current device.

  * **requires_grad** ( _bool_ _,_ _optional_ ) – If autograd should record operations on the returned tensor. Default: `False`.

  * **pin_memory** ( _bool_ _,_ _optional_ ) – If set, returned tensor would be allocated in the pinned memory. Works only for CPU tensors. Default: `False`.

Example:

    
    
    >>> torch.tensor([[0.1, 1.2], [2.2, 3.1], [4.9, 5.2]])
    tensor([[ 0.1000,  1.2000],
            [ 2.2000,  3.1000],
            [ 4.9000,  5.2000]])
    
    >>> torch.tensor([0, 1])  # Type inference on data
    tensor([ 0,  1])
    
    >>> torch.tensor([[0.11111, 0.222222, 0.3333333]],
    ...              dtype=torch.float64,
    ...              device=torch.device('cuda:0'))  # creates a double tensor on a CUDA device
    tensor([[ 0.1111,  0.2222,  0.3333]], dtype=torch.float64, device='cuda:0')
    
    >>> torch.tensor(3.14159)  # Create a zero-dimensional (scalar) tensor
    tensor(3.1416)
    
    >>> torch.tensor([])  # Create an empty tensor (of size (0,))
    tensor([])
    

Next ![](../_static/images/chevron-right-orange.svg)
![](../_static/images/chevron-right-orange.svg) Previous

* * *

(C) Copyright 2023, PyTorch Contributors.

Built with Sphinx using a theme provided by Read the Docs.

  * torch.tensor
    * `tensor()`

![](https://www.googleadservices.com/pagead/conversion/795629140/?label=txkmCPmdtosBENSssfsC&guid=ON&script=0)

## Docs

Access comprehensive developer documentation for PyTorch

View Docs

## Tutorials

Get in-depth tutorials for beginners and advanced developers

View Tutorials

## Resources

Find development resources and get your questions answered

View Resources

  * PyTorch
  * Get Started
  * Features
  * Ecosystem
  * Blog
  * Contributing

  * Resources
  * Tutorials
  * Docs
  * Discuss
  * Github Issues
  * Brand Guidelines

  * Stay up to date
  * Facebook
  * Twitter
  * YouTube
  * LinkedIn

  * PyTorch Podcasts
  * Spotify
  * Apple
  * Google
  * Amazon

  * Terms
  * |
  * Privacy

© Copyright The Linux Foundation. The PyTorch Foundation is a project of The
Linux Foundation. For web site terms of use, trademark policy and other
policies applicable to The PyTorch Foundation please see
www.linuxfoundation.org/policies/. The PyTorch Foundation supports the PyTorch
open source project, which has been established as PyTorch Project a Series of
LF Projects, LLC. For policies applicable to the PyTorch Project a Series of
LF Projects, LLC, please see www.lfprojects.org/policies/.

To analyze traffic and optimize your experience, we serve cookies on this
site. By clicking or navigating, you agree to allow our usage of cookies. As
the current maintainers of this site, Facebook’s Cookies Policy applies. Learn
more, including about available controls: Cookies Policy.

![](../_static/images/pytorch-x.svg)

  * Get Started
  * Ecosystem
  * Mobile
  * Blog
  * Tutorials
  * Docs 
    * PyTorch
    * torchaudio
    * torchtext
    * torchvision
    * torcharrow
    * TorchData
    * TorchRec
    * TorchServe
    * TorchX
    * PyTorch on XLA Devices
  * Resources 
    * About
    * PyTorch Foundation
    * Community
    * Community Stories
    * Developer Resources
    * Events
    * Forums
    * Models (Beta)
  * Github

