

  * Get Started
  * Ecosystem
  * Mobile
  * Blog
  * Tutorials
  * Docs 

PyTorch

torchaudio

torchtext

torchvision

torcharrow

TorchData

TorchRec

TorchServe

TorchX

PyTorch on XLA Devices

  * Resources 

About

Learn about PyTorch’s features and capabilities

PyTorch Foundation

Learn about the PyTorch foundation

Community

Join the PyTorch developer community to contribute, learn, and get your
questions answered.

Community Stories

Learn how our community solves real, everyday machine learning problems with
PyTorch.

Developer Resources

Find resources and get questions answered

Events

Find events, webinars, and podcasts

Forums

A place to discuss PyTorch code, issues, install, research

Models (Beta)

Discover, publish, and reuse pre-trained models

  * GitHub

Table of Contents

2.1 ▼

Community

  * PyTorch Governance | Build + CI
  * PyTorch Contribution Guide
  * PyTorch Design Philosophy
  * PyTorch Governance | Mechanics
  * PyTorch Governance | Maintainers

Developer Notes

  * CUDA Automatic Mixed Precision examples
  * Autograd mechanics
  * Broadcasting semantics
  * CPU threading and TorchScript inference
  * CUDA semantics
  * Distributed Data Parallel
  * Extending PyTorch
  * Extending torch.func with autograd.Function
  * Frequently Asked Questions
  * Gradcheck mechanics
  * HIP (ROCm) semantics
  * Features for large-scale deployments
  * Modules
  * MPS backend
  * Multiprocessing best practices
  * Numerical accuracy
  * Reproducibility
  * Serialization semantics
  * Windows FAQ

Language Bindings

  * C++
  * Javadoc
  * torch::deploy

Python API

  * torch
  * torch.nn
  * torch.nn.functional
  * torch.Tensor
  * Tensor Attributes
  * Tensor Views
  * torch.amp
  * torch.autograd
  * torch.library
  * torch.cpu
  * torch.cuda
  * Understanding CUDA Memory Usage
  * Generating a Snapshot
  * Using the visualizer
  * Snapshot API Reference
  * torch.mps
  * torch.backends
  * torch.export
  * torch.distributed
  * torch.distributed.algorithms.join
  * torch.distributed.elastic
  * torch.distributed.fsdp
  * torch.distributed.optim
  * torch.distributed.tensor.parallel
  * torch.distributed.checkpoint
  * torch.distributions
  * torch.compiler
  * torch.fft
  * torch.func
  * torch.futures
  * torch.fx
  * torch.hub
  * torch.jit
  * torch.linalg
  * torch.monitor
  * torch.signal
  * torch.special
  * torch.overrides
  * torch.package
  * torch.profiler
  * torch.nn.init
  * torch.onnx
  * torch.optim
  * Complex Numbers
  * DDP Communication Hooks
  * Pipeline Parallelism
  * Quantization
  * Distributed RPC Framework
  * torch.random
  * torch.masked
  * torch.nested
  * torch.sparse
  * torch.Storage
  * torch.testing
  * torch.utils
  * torch.utils.benchmark
  * torch.utils.bottleneck
  * torch.utils.checkpoint
  * torch.utils.cpp_extension
  * torch.utils.data
  * torch.utils.jit
  * torch.utils.dlpack
  * torch.utils.mobile_optimizer
  * torch.utils.model_zoo
  * torch.utils.tensorboard
  * Type Info
  * Named Tensors
  * Named Tensors operator coverage
  * torch.__config__
  * torch._logging

Libraries

  * torchaudio
  * TorchData
  * TorchRec
  * TorchServe
  * torchtext
  * torchvision
  * PyTorch on XLA Devices

  * Docs  >
  * TorchScript >
  * torch.jit.fork
  * ![](../_static/images/view-page-source-icon.svg)

Shortcuts

# torch.jit.fork¶

torch.jit.fork( _func_ , _* args_, _** kwargs_)[source]¶

    

Creates an asynchronous task executing func and a reference to the value of
the result of this execution. fork will return immediately, so the return
value of func may not have been computed yet. To force completion of the task
and access the return value invoke torch.jit.wait on the Future. fork invoked
with a func which returns T is typed as torch.jit.Future[T]. fork calls can be
arbitrarily nested, and may be invoked with positional and keyword arguments.
Asynchronous execution will only occur when run in TorchScript. If run in pure
python, fork will not execute in parallel. fork will also not execute in
parallel when invoked while tracing, however the fork and wait calls will be
captured in the exported IR Graph.

Warning

fork tasks will execute non-deterministically. We recommend only spawning
parallel fork tasks for pure functions that do not modify their inputs, module
attributes, or global state.

Parameters

    

  * **func** ( _callable_ _or_ _torch.nn.Module_) – A Python function or torch.nn.Module that will be invoked. If executed in TorchScript, it will execute asynchronously, otherwise it will not. Traced invocations of fork will be captured in the IR.

  * ***args** – arguments to invoke func with.

  * ****kwargs** – arguments to invoke func with.

Returns

    

a reference to the execution of func. The value T can only be accessed by
forcing completion of func through torch.jit.wait.

Return type

    

torch.jit.Future[T]

Example (fork a free function):

    
    
    import torch
    from torch import Tensor
    def foo(a : Tensor, b : int) -> Tensor:
        return a + b
    def bar(a):
        fut : torch.jit.Future[Tensor] = torch.jit.fork(foo, a, b=2)
        return torch.jit.wait(fut)
    script_bar = torch.jit.script(bar)
    input = torch.tensor(2)
    # only the scripted version executes asynchronously
    assert script_bar(input) == bar(input)
    # trace is not run asynchronously, but fork is captured in IR
    graph = torch.jit.trace(bar, (input,)).graph
    assert "fork" in str(graph)
    

Example (fork a module method):

    
    
    import torch
    from torch import Tensor
    class AddMod(torch.nn.Module):
        def forward(self, a: Tensor, b : int):
            return a + b
    class Mod(torch.nn.Module):
        def __init__(self):
            super(self).__init__()
            self.mod = AddMod()
        def forward(self, input):
            fut = torch.jit.fork(self.mod, a, b=2)
            return torch.jit.wait(fut)
    input = torch.tensor(2)
    mod = Mod()
    assert mod(input) == torch.jit.script(mod).forward(input)
    

Next ![](../_static/images/chevron-right-orange.svg)
![](../_static/images/chevron-right-orange.svg) Previous

* * *

(C) Copyright 2023, PyTorch Contributors.

Built with Sphinx using a theme provided by Read the Docs.

  * torch.jit.fork
    * `fork()`

![](https://www.googleadservices.com/pagead/conversion/795629140/?label=txkmCPmdtosBENSssfsC&guid=ON&script=0)

## Docs

Access comprehensive developer documentation for PyTorch

View Docs

## Tutorials

Get in-depth tutorials for beginners and advanced developers

View Tutorials

## Resources

Find development resources and get your questions answered

View Resources

  * PyTorch
  * Get Started
  * Features
  * Ecosystem
  * Blog
  * Contributing

  * Resources
  * Tutorials
  * Docs
  * Discuss
  * Github Issues
  * Brand Guidelines

  * Stay up to date
  * Facebook
  * Twitter
  * YouTube
  * LinkedIn

  * PyTorch Podcasts
  * Spotify
  * Apple
  * Google
  * Amazon

  * Terms
  * |
  * Privacy

© Copyright The Linux Foundation. The PyTorch Foundation is a project of The
Linux Foundation. For web site terms of use, trademark policy and other
policies applicable to The PyTorch Foundation please see
www.linuxfoundation.org/policies/. The PyTorch Foundation supports the PyTorch
open source project, which has been established as PyTorch Project a Series of
LF Projects, LLC. For policies applicable to the PyTorch Project a Series of
LF Projects, LLC, please see www.lfprojects.org/policies/.

To analyze traffic and optimize your experience, we serve cookies on this
site. By clicking or navigating, you agree to allow our usage of cookies. As
the current maintainers of this site, Facebook’s Cookies Policy applies. Learn
more, including about available controls: Cookies Policy.

![](../_static/images/pytorch-x.svg)

  * Get Started
  * Ecosystem
  * Mobile
  * Blog
  * Tutorials
  * Docs 
    * PyTorch
    * torchaudio
    * torchtext
    * torchvision
    * torcharrow
    * TorchData
    * TorchRec
    * TorchServe
    * TorchX
    * PyTorch on XLA Devices
  * Resources 
    * About
    * PyTorch Foundation
    * Community
    * Community Stories
    * Developer Resources
    * Events
    * Forums
    * Models (Beta)
  * Github

