

  * Get Started
  * Ecosystem
  * Mobile
  * Blog
  * Tutorials
  * Docs 

PyTorch

torchaudio

torchtext

torchvision

torcharrow

TorchData

TorchRec

TorchServe

TorchX

PyTorch on XLA Devices

  * Resources 

About

Learn about PyTorch’s features and capabilities

PyTorch Foundation

Learn about the PyTorch foundation

Community

Join the PyTorch developer community to contribute, learn, and get your
questions answered.

Community Stories

Learn how our community solves real, everyday machine learning problems with
PyTorch.

Developer Resources

Find resources and get questions answered

Events

Find events, webinars, and podcasts

Forums

A place to discuss PyTorch code, issues, install, research

Models (Beta)

Discover, publish, and reuse pre-trained models

  * GitHub

Table of Contents

2.1 ▼

Community

  * PyTorch Governance | Build + CI
  * PyTorch Contribution Guide
  * PyTorch Design Philosophy
  * PyTorch Governance | Mechanics
  * PyTorch Governance | Maintainers

Developer Notes

  * CUDA Automatic Mixed Precision examples
  * Autograd mechanics
  * Broadcasting semantics
  * CPU threading and TorchScript inference
  * CUDA semantics
  * Distributed Data Parallel
  * Extending PyTorch
  * Extending torch.func with autograd.Function
  * Frequently Asked Questions
  * Gradcheck mechanics
  * HIP (ROCm) semantics
  * Features for large-scale deployments
  * Modules
  * MPS backend
  * Multiprocessing best practices
  * Numerical accuracy
  * Reproducibility
  * Serialization semantics
  * Windows FAQ

Language Bindings

  * C++
  * Javadoc
  * torch::deploy

Python API

  * torch
  * torch.nn
  * torch.nn.functional
  * torch.Tensor
  * Tensor Attributes
  * Tensor Views
  * torch.amp
  * torch.autograd
  * torch.library
  * torch.cpu
  * torch.cuda
  * Understanding CUDA Memory Usage
  * Generating a Snapshot
  * Using the visualizer
  * Snapshot API Reference
  * torch.mps
  * torch.backends
  * torch.export
  * torch.distributed
  * torch.distributed.algorithms.join
  * torch.distributed.elastic
  * torch.distributed.fsdp
  * torch.distributed.optim
  * torch.distributed.tensor.parallel
  * torch.distributed.checkpoint
  * torch.distributions
  * torch.compiler
  * torch.fft
  * torch.func
  * torch.futures
  * torch.fx
  * torch.hub
  * torch.jit
  * torch.linalg
  * torch.monitor
  * torch.signal
  * torch.special
  * torch.overrides
  * torch.package
  * torch.profiler
  * torch.nn.init
  * torch.onnx
  * torch.optim
  * Complex Numbers
  * DDP Communication Hooks
  * Pipeline Parallelism
  * Quantization
  * Distributed RPC Framework
  * torch.random
  * torch.masked
  * torch.nested
  * torch.sparse
  * torch.Storage
  * torch.testing
  * torch.utils
  * torch.utils.benchmark
  * torch.utils.bottleneck
  * torch.utils.checkpoint
  * torch.utils.cpp_extension
  * torch.utils.data
  * torch.utils.jit
  * torch.utils.dlpack
  * torch.utils.mobile_optimizer
  * torch.utils.model_zoo
  * torch.utils.tensorboard
  * Type Info
  * Named Tensors
  * Named Tensors operator coverage
  * torch.__config__
  * torch._logging

Libraries

  * torchaudio
  * TorchData
  * TorchRec
  * TorchServe
  * torchtext
  * torchvision
  * PyTorch on XLA Devices

  * Docs  >
  * torch.nn >
  * MaxUnpool1d
  * ![](../_static/images/view-page-source-icon.svg)

Shortcuts

# MaxUnpool1d¶

_class _torch.nn.MaxUnpool1d( _kernel_size_ , _stride =None_, _padding
=0_)[source]¶

    

Computes a partial inverse of `MaxPool1d`.

`MaxPool1d` is not fully invertible, since the non-maximal values are lost.

`MaxUnpool1d` takes in as input the output of `MaxPool1d` including the
indices of the maximal values and computes a partial inverse in which all non-
maximal values are set to zero.

Note

This operation may behave nondeterministically when the input indices has
repeat values. See https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/issues/80827 and
Reproducibility for more information.

Note

`MaxPool1d` can map several input sizes to the same output sizes. Hence, the
inversion process can get ambiguous. To accommodate this, you can provide the
needed output size as an additional argument `output_size` in the forward
call. See the Inputs and Example below.

Parameters

    

  * **kernel_size** ( _int_ _or_ _tuple_) – Size of the max pooling window.

  * **stride** ( _int_ _or_ _tuple_) – Stride of the max pooling window. It is set to `kernel_size` by default.

  * **padding** ( _int_ _or_ _tuple_) – Padding that was added to the input

Inputs:

    

  * input: the input Tensor to invert

  * indices: the indices given out by `MaxPool1d`

  * output_size (optional): the targeted output size

Shape:

    

  * Input: (N,C,Hin)(N, C, H_{in})(N,C,Hin​) or (C,Hin)(C, H_{in})(C,Hin​).

  * Output: (N,C,Hout)(N, C, H_{out})(N,C,Hout​) or (C,Hout)(C, H_{out})(C,Hout​), where

Hout=(Hin−1)×stride[0]−2×padding[0]+kernel_size[0]H_{out} = (H_{in} - 1)
\times \text{stride}[0] - 2 \times \text{padding}[0] + \text{kernel\\_size}[0]
Hout​=(Hin​−1)×stride[0]−2×padding[0]+kernel_size[0]

or as given by `output_size` in the call operator

Example:

    
    
    >>> pool = nn.MaxPool1d(2, stride=2, return_indices=True)
    >>> unpool = nn.MaxUnpool1d(2, stride=2)
    >>> input = torch.tensor([[[1., 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8]]])
    >>> output, indices = pool(input)
    >>> unpool(output, indices)
    tensor([[[ 0.,  2.,  0.,  4.,  0.,  6.,  0., 8.]]])
    
    >>> # Example showcasing the use of output_size
    >>> input = torch.tensor([[[1., 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9]]])
    >>> output, indices = pool(input)
    >>> unpool(output, indices, output_size=input.size())
    tensor([[[ 0.,  2.,  0.,  4.,  0.,  6.,  0., 8.,  0.]]])
    
    >>> unpool(output, indices)
    tensor([[[ 0.,  2.,  0.,  4.,  0.,  6.,  0., 8.]]])
    

Next ![](../_static/images/chevron-right-orange.svg)
![](../_static/images/chevron-right-orange.svg) Previous

* * *

(C) Copyright 2023, PyTorch Contributors.

Built with Sphinx using a theme provided by Read the Docs.

  * MaxUnpool1d
    * `MaxUnpool1d`

![](https://www.googleadservices.com/pagead/conversion/795629140/?label=txkmCPmdtosBENSssfsC&guid=ON&script=0)

## Docs

Access comprehensive developer documentation for PyTorch

View Docs

## Tutorials

Get in-depth tutorials for beginners and advanced developers

View Tutorials

## Resources

Find development resources and get your questions answered

View Resources

  * PyTorch
  * Get Started
  * Features
  * Ecosystem
  * Blog
  * Contributing

  * Resources
  * Tutorials
  * Docs
  * Discuss
  * Github Issues
  * Brand Guidelines

  * Stay up to date
  * Facebook
  * Twitter
  * YouTube
  * LinkedIn

  * PyTorch Podcasts
  * Spotify
  * Apple
  * Google
  * Amazon

  * Terms
  * |
  * Privacy

© Copyright The Linux Foundation. The PyTorch Foundation is a project of The
Linux Foundation. For web site terms of use, trademark policy and other
policies applicable to The PyTorch Foundation please see
www.linuxfoundation.org/policies/. The PyTorch Foundation supports the PyTorch
open source project, which has been established as PyTorch Project a Series of
LF Projects, LLC. For policies applicable to the PyTorch Project a Series of
LF Projects, LLC, please see www.lfprojects.org/policies/.

To analyze traffic and optimize your experience, we serve cookies on this
site. By clicking or navigating, you agree to allow our usage of cookies. As
the current maintainers of this site, Facebook’s Cookies Policy applies. Learn
more, including about available controls: Cookies Policy.

![](../_static/images/pytorch-x.svg)

  * Get Started
  * Ecosystem
  * Mobile
  * Blog
  * Tutorials
  * Docs 
    * PyTorch
    * torchaudio
    * torchtext
    * torchvision
    * torcharrow
    * TorchData
    * TorchRec
    * TorchServe
    * TorchX
    * PyTorch on XLA Devices
  * Resources 
    * About
    * PyTorch Foundation
    * Community
    * Community Stories
    * Developer Resources
    * Events
    * Forums
    * Models (Beta)
  * Github

