

  * Get Started
  * Ecosystem
  * Mobile
  * Blog
  * Tutorials
  * Docs 

PyTorch

torchaudio

torchtext

torchvision

torcharrow

TorchData

TorchRec

TorchServe

TorchX

PyTorch on XLA Devices

  * Resources 

About

Learn about PyTorch’s features and capabilities

PyTorch Foundation

Learn about the PyTorch foundation

Community

Join the PyTorch developer community to contribute, learn, and get your
questions answered.

Community Stories

Learn how our community solves real, everyday machine learning problems with
PyTorch.

Developer Resources

Find resources and get questions answered

Events

Find events, webinars, and podcasts

Forums

A place to discuss PyTorch code, issues, install, research

Models (Beta)

Discover, publish, and reuse pre-trained models

  * GitHub

Table of Contents

2.1 ▼

Community

  * PyTorch Governance | Build + CI
  * PyTorch Contribution Guide
  * PyTorch Design Philosophy
  * PyTorch Governance | Mechanics
  * PyTorch Governance | Maintainers

Developer Notes

  * CUDA Automatic Mixed Precision examples
  * Autograd mechanics
  * Broadcasting semantics
  * CPU threading and TorchScript inference
  * CUDA semantics
  * Distributed Data Parallel
  * Extending PyTorch
  * Extending torch.func with autograd.Function
  * Frequently Asked Questions
  * Gradcheck mechanics
  * HIP (ROCm) semantics
  * Features for large-scale deployments
  * Modules
  * MPS backend
  * Multiprocessing best practices
  * Numerical accuracy
  * Reproducibility
  * Serialization semantics
  * Windows FAQ

Language Bindings

  * C++
  * Javadoc
  * torch::deploy

Python API

  * torch
  * torch.nn
  * torch.nn.functional
  * torch.Tensor
  * Tensor Attributes
  * Tensor Views
  * torch.amp
  * torch.autograd
  * torch.library
  * torch.cpu
  * torch.cuda
  * Understanding CUDA Memory Usage
  * Generating a Snapshot
  * Using the visualizer
  * Snapshot API Reference
  * torch.mps
  * torch.backends
  * torch.export
  * torch.distributed
  * torch.distributed.algorithms.join
  * torch.distributed.elastic
  * torch.distributed.fsdp
  * torch.distributed.optim
  * torch.distributed.tensor.parallel
  * torch.distributed.checkpoint
  * torch.distributions
  * torch.compiler
  * torch.fft
  * torch.func
  * torch.futures
  * torch.fx
  * torch.hub
  * torch.jit
  * torch.linalg
  * torch.monitor
  * torch.signal
  * torch.special
  * torch.overrides
  * torch.package
  * torch.profiler
  * torch.nn.init
  * torch.onnx
  * torch.optim
  * Complex Numbers
  * DDP Communication Hooks
  * Pipeline Parallelism
  * Quantization
  * Distributed RPC Framework
  * torch.random
  * torch.masked
  * torch.nested
  * torch.sparse
  * torch.Storage
  * torch.testing
  * torch.utils
  * torch.utils.benchmark
  * torch.utils.bottleneck
  * torch.utils.checkpoint
  * torch.utils.cpp_extension
  * torch.utils.data
  * torch.utils.jit
  * torch.utils.dlpack
  * torch.utils.mobile_optimizer
  * torch.utils.model_zoo
  * torch.utils.tensorboard
  * Type Info
  * Named Tensors
  * Named Tensors operator coverage
  * torch.__config__
  * torch._logging

Libraries

  * torchaudio
  * TorchData
  * TorchRec
  * TorchServe
  * torchtext
  * torchvision
  * PyTorch on XLA Devices

  * Docs  >
  * torch.nn.functional >
  * torch.nn.functional.interpolate
  * ![](../_static/images/view-page-source-icon.svg)

Shortcuts

# torch.nn.functional.interpolate¶

torch.nn.functional.interpolate( _input_ , _size =None_, _scale_factor =None_,
_mode ='nearest'_, _align_corners =None_, _recompute_scale_factor =None_,
_antialias =False_)[source]¶

    

Down/up samples the input to either the given `size` or the given
`scale_factor`

The algorithm used for interpolation is determined by `mode`.

Currently temporal, spatial and volumetric sampling are supported, i.e.
expected inputs are 3-D, 4-D or 5-D in shape.

The input dimensions are interpreted in the form: mini-batch x channels x
[optional depth] x [optional height] x width.

The modes available for resizing are: nearest, linear (3D-only), bilinear,
bicubic (4D-only), trilinear (5D-only), area, nearest-exact

Parameters

    

  * **input** ( _Tensor_) – the input tensor

  * **size** ( _int_ _or_ _Tuple_ _[_ _int_ _] or_ _Tuple_ _[_ _int_ _,_ _int_ _] or_ _Tuple_ _[_ _int_ _,_ _int_ _,_ _int_ _]_ ) – output spatial size.

  * **scale_factor** ( _float_ _or_ _Tuple_ _[_ _float_ _]_ ) – multiplier for spatial size. If scale_factor is a tuple, its length has to match the number of spatial dimensions; input.dim() - 2.

  * **mode** ( _str_) – algorithm used for upsampling: `'nearest'` | `'linear'` | `'bilinear'` | `'bicubic'` | `'trilinear'` | `'area'` | `'nearest-exact'`. Default: `'nearest'`

  * **align_corners** ( _bool_ _,_ _optional_ ) – Geometrically, we consider the pixels of the input and output as squares rather than points. If set to `True`, the input and output tensors are aligned by the center points of their corner pixels, preserving the values at the corner pixels. If set to `False`, the input and output tensors are aligned by the corner points of their corner pixels, and the interpolation uses edge value padding for out-of-boundary values, making this operation _independent_ of input size when `scale_factor` is kept the same. This only has an effect when `mode` is `'linear'`, `'bilinear'`, `'bicubic'` or `'trilinear'`. Default: `False`

  * **recompute_scale_factor** ( _bool_ _,_ _optional_ ) – recompute the scale_factor for use in the interpolation calculation. If recompute_scale_factor is `True`, then scale_factor must be passed in and scale_factor is used to compute the output size. The computed output size will be used to infer new scales for the interpolation. Note that when scale_factor is floating-point, it may differ from the recomputed scale_factor due to rounding and precision issues. If recompute_scale_factor is `False`, then size or scale_factor will be used directly for interpolation. Default: `None`.

  * **antialias** ( _bool_ _,_ _optional_ ) – flag to apply anti-aliasing. Default: `False`. Using anti-alias option together with `align_corners=False`, interpolation result would match Pillow result for downsampling operation. Supported modes: `'bilinear'`, `'bicubic'`.

Return type

    

_Tensor_

Note

With `mode='bicubic'`, it’s possible to cause overshoot, in other words it can
produce negative values or values greater than 255 for images. Explicitly call
`result.clamp(min=0, max=255)` if you want to reduce the overshoot when
displaying the image.

Note

Mode `mode='nearest-exact'` matches Scikit-Image and PIL nearest neighbours
interpolation algorithms and fixes known issues with `mode='nearest'`. This
mode is introduced to keep backward compatibility. Mode `mode='nearest'`
matches buggy OpenCV’s `INTER_NEAREST` interpolation algorithm.

Note

The gradients for the dtype `float16` on CUDA may be inaccurate in the
upsample operation when using modes `['linear', 'bilinear', 'bicubic',
'trilinear', 'area']`. For more details, please refer to the discussion in
issue#104157.

Note

This operation may produce nondeterministic gradients when given tensors on a
CUDA device. See Reproducibility for more information.

Next ![](../_static/images/chevron-right-orange.svg)
![](../_static/images/chevron-right-orange.svg) Previous

* * *

(C) Copyright 2023, PyTorch Contributors.

Built with Sphinx using a theme provided by Read the Docs.

  * torch.nn.functional.interpolate
    * `interpolate()`

![](https://www.googleadservices.com/pagead/conversion/795629140/?label=txkmCPmdtosBENSssfsC&guid=ON&script=0)

## Docs

Access comprehensive developer documentation for PyTorch

View Docs

## Tutorials

Get in-depth tutorials for beginners and advanced developers

View Tutorials

## Resources

Find development resources and get your questions answered

View Resources

  * PyTorch
  * Get Started
  * Features
  * Ecosystem
  * Blog
  * Contributing

  * Resources
  * Tutorials
  * Docs
  * Discuss
  * Github Issues
  * Brand Guidelines

  * Stay up to date
  * Facebook
  * Twitter
  * YouTube
  * LinkedIn

  * PyTorch Podcasts
  * Spotify
  * Apple
  * Google
  * Amazon

  * Terms
  * |
  * Privacy

© Copyright The Linux Foundation. The PyTorch Foundation is a project of The
Linux Foundation. For web site terms of use, trademark policy and other
policies applicable to The PyTorch Foundation please see
www.linuxfoundation.org/policies/. The PyTorch Foundation supports the PyTorch
open source project, which has been established as PyTorch Project a Series of
LF Projects, LLC. For policies applicable to the PyTorch Project a Series of
LF Projects, LLC, please see www.lfprojects.org/policies/.

To analyze traffic and optimize your experience, we serve cookies on this
site. By clicking or navigating, you agree to allow our usage of cookies. As
the current maintainers of this site, Facebook’s Cookies Policy applies. Learn
more, including about available controls: Cookies Policy.

![](../_static/images/pytorch-x.svg)

  * Get Started
  * Ecosystem
  * Mobile
  * Blog
  * Tutorials
  * Docs 
    * PyTorch
    * torchaudio
    * torchtext
    * torchvision
    * torcharrow
    * TorchData
    * TorchRec
    * TorchServe
    * TorchX
    * PyTorch on XLA Devices
  * Resources 
    * About
    * PyTorch Foundation
    * Community
    * Community Stories
    * Developer Resources
    * Events
    * Forums
    * Models (Beta)
  * Github

