

  * Get Started
  * Ecosystem
  * Mobile
  * Blog
  * Tutorials
  * Docs 

PyTorch

torchaudio

torchtext

torchvision

torcharrow

TorchData

TorchRec

TorchServe

TorchX

PyTorch on XLA Devices

  * Resources 

About

Learn about PyTorch’s features and capabilities

PyTorch Foundation

Learn about the PyTorch foundation

Community

Join the PyTorch developer community to contribute, learn, and get your
questions answered.

Community Stories

Learn how our community solves real, everyday machine learning problems with
PyTorch.

Developer Resources

Find resources and get questions answered

Events

Find events, webinars, and podcasts

Forums

A place to discuss PyTorch code, issues, install, research

Models (Beta)

Discover, publish, and reuse pre-trained models

  * GitHub

Table of Contents

2.1 ▼

Community

  * PyTorch Governance | Build + CI
  * PyTorch Contribution Guide
  * PyTorch Design Philosophy
  * PyTorch Governance | Mechanics
  * PyTorch Governance | Maintainers

Developer Notes

  * CUDA Automatic Mixed Precision examples
  * Autograd mechanics
  * Broadcasting semantics
  * CPU threading and TorchScript inference
  * CUDA semantics
  * Distributed Data Parallel
  * Extending PyTorch
  * Extending torch.func with autograd.Function
  * Frequently Asked Questions
  * Gradcheck mechanics
  * HIP (ROCm) semantics
  * Features for large-scale deployments
  * Modules
  * MPS backend
  * Multiprocessing best practices
  * Numerical accuracy
  * Reproducibility
  * Serialization semantics
  * Windows FAQ

Language Bindings

  * C++
  * Javadoc
  * torch::deploy

Python API

  * torch
  * torch.nn
  * torch.nn.functional
  * torch.Tensor
  * Tensor Attributes
  * Tensor Views
  * torch.amp
  * torch.autograd
  * torch.library
  * torch.cpu
  * torch.cuda
  * Understanding CUDA Memory Usage
  * Generating a Snapshot
  * Using the visualizer
  * Snapshot API Reference
  * torch.mps
  * torch.backends
  * torch.export
  * torch.distributed
  * torch.distributed.algorithms.join
  * torch.distributed.elastic
  * torch.distributed.fsdp
  * torch.distributed.optim
  * torch.distributed.tensor.parallel
  * torch.distributed.checkpoint
  * torch.distributions
  * torch.compiler
  * torch.fft
  * torch.func
  * torch.futures
  * torch.fx
  * torch.hub
  * torch.jit
  * torch.linalg
  * torch.monitor
  * torch.signal
  * torch.special
  * torch.overrides
  * torch.package
  * torch.profiler
  * torch.nn.init
  * torch.onnx
  * torch.optim
  * Complex Numbers
  * DDP Communication Hooks
  * Pipeline Parallelism
  * Quantization
  * Distributed RPC Framework
  * torch.random
  * torch.masked
  * torch.nested
  * torch.sparse
  * torch.Storage
  * torch.testing
  * torch.utils
  * torch.utils.benchmark
  * torch.utils.bottleneck
  * torch.utils.checkpoint
  * torch.utils.cpp_extension
  * torch.utils.data
  * torch.utils.jit
  * torch.utils.dlpack
  * torch.utils.mobile_optimizer
  * torch.utils.model_zoo
  * torch.utils.tensorboard
  * Type Info
  * Named Tensors
  * Named Tensors operator coverage
  * torch.__config__
  * torch._logging

Libraries

  * torchaudio
  * TorchData
  * TorchRec
  * TorchServe
  * torchtext
  * torchvision
  * PyTorch on XLA Devices

  * Docs  >
  * torch.nn.functional >
  * torch.nn.functional.pad
  * ![](../_static/images/view-page-source-icon.svg)

Shortcuts

# torch.nn.functional.pad¶

torch.nn.functional.pad( _input_ , _pad_ , _mode ='constant'_, _value =None_)
-> Tensor¶

    

Pads tensor.

Padding size:

    

The padding size by which to pad some dimensions of `input` are described
starting from the last dimension and moving forward.
⌊len(pad)2⌋\left\lfloor\frac{\text{len(pad)}}{2}\right\rfloor⌊2len(pad)​⌋
dimensions of `input` will be padded. For example, to pad only the last
dimension of the input tensor, then `pad` has the form
(padding_left,padding_right)(\text{padding\\_left},
\text{padding\\_right})(padding_left,padding_right); to pad the last 2
dimensions of the input tensor, then use
(padding_left,padding_right,(\text{padding\\_left},
\text{padding\\_right},(padding_left,padding_right,
padding_top,padding_bottom)\text{padding\\_top},
\text{padding\\_bottom})padding_top,padding_bottom); to pad the last 3
dimensions, use (padding_left,padding_right,(\text{padding\\_left},
\text{padding\\_right},(padding_left,padding_right,
padding_top,padding_bottom\text{padding\\_top},
\text{padding\\_bottom}padding_top,padding_bottom
padding_front,padding_back)\text{padding\\_front},
\text{padding\\_back})padding_front,padding_back).

Padding mode:

    

See `torch.nn.CircularPad2d`, `torch.nn.ConstantPad2d`,
`torch.nn.ReflectionPad2d`, and `torch.nn.ReplicationPad2d` for concrete
examples on how each of the padding modes works. Constant padding is
implemented for arbitrary dimensions. Circular, replicate and reflection
padding are implemented for padding the last 3 dimensions of a 4D or 5D input
tensor, the last 2 dimensions of a 3D or 4D input tensor, or the last
dimension of a 2D or 3D input tensor.

Note

When using the CUDA backend, this operation may induce nondeterministic
behaviour in its backward pass that is not easily switched off. Please see the
notes on Reproducibility for background.

Parameters

    

  * **input** ( _Tensor_) – N-dimensional tensor

  * **pad** ( _tuple_) – m-elements tuple, where m2≤\frac{m}{2} \leq2m​≤ input dimensions and mmm is even.

  * **mode** – `'constant'`, `'reflect'`, `'replicate'` or `'circular'`. Default: `'constant'`

  * **value** – fill value for `'constant'` padding. Default: `0`

Examples:

    
    
    >>> t4d = torch.empty(3, 3, 4, 2)
    >>> p1d = (1, 1) # pad last dim by 1 on each side
    >>> out = F.pad(t4d, p1d, "constant", 0)  # effectively zero padding
    >>> print(out.size())
    torch.Size([3, 3, 4, 4])
    >>> p2d = (1, 1, 2, 2) # pad last dim by (1, 1) and 2nd to last by (2, 2)
    >>> out = F.pad(t4d, p2d, "constant", 0)
    >>> print(out.size())
    torch.Size([3, 3, 8, 4])
    >>> t4d = torch.empty(3, 3, 4, 2)
    >>> p3d = (0, 1, 2, 1, 3, 3) # pad by (0, 1), (2, 1), and (3, 3)
    >>> out = F.pad(t4d, p3d, "constant", 0)
    >>> print(out.size())
    torch.Size([3, 9, 7, 3])
    

Next ![](../_static/images/chevron-right-orange.svg)
![](../_static/images/chevron-right-orange.svg) Previous

* * *

(C) Copyright 2023, PyTorch Contributors.

Built with Sphinx using a theme provided by Read the Docs.

  * torch.nn.functional.pad
    * `pad()`

![](https://www.googleadservices.com/pagead/conversion/795629140/?label=txkmCPmdtosBENSssfsC&guid=ON&script=0)

## Docs

Access comprehensive developer documentation for PyTorch

View Docs

## Tutorials

Get in-depth tutorials for beginners and advanced developers

View Tutorials

## Resources

Find development resources and get your questions answered

View Resources

  * PyTorch
  * Get Started
  * Features
  * Ecosystem
  * Blog
  * Contributing

  * Resources
  * Tutorials
  * Docs
  * Discuss
  * Github Issues
  * Brand Guidelines

  * Stay up to date
  * Facebook
  * Twitter
  * YouTube
  * LinkedIn

  * PyTorch Podcasts
  * Spotify
  * Apple
  * Google
  * Amazon

  * Terms
  * |
  * Privacy

© Copyright The Linux Foundation. The PyTorch Foundation is a project of The
Linux Foundation. For web site terms of use, trademark policy and other
policies applicable to The PyTorch Foundation please see
www.linuxfoundation.org/policies/. The PyTorch Foundation supports the PyTorch
open source project, which has been established as PyTorch Project a Series of
LF Projects, LLC. For policies applicable to the PyTorch Project a Series of
LF Projects, LLC, please see www.lfprojects.org/policies/.

To analyze traffic and optimize your experience, we serve cookies on this
site. By clicking or navigating, you agree to allow our usage of cookies. As
the current maintainers of this site, Facebook’s Cookies Policy applies. Learn
more, including about available controls: Cookies Policy.

![](../_static/images/pytorch-x.svg)

  * Get Started
  * Ecosystem
  * Mobile
  * Blog
  * Tutorials
  * Docs 
    * PyTorch
    * torchaudio
    * torchtext
    * torchvision
    * torcharrow
    * TorchData
    * TorchRec
    * TorchServe
    * TorchX
    * PyTorch on XLA Devices
  * Resources 
    * About
    * PyTorch Foundation
    * Community
    * Community Stories
    * Developer Resources
    * Events
    * Forums
    * Models (Beta)
  * Github

