

  * Get Started
  * Ecosystem
  * Mobile
  * Blog
  * Tutorials
  * Docs 

PyTorch

torchaudio

torchtext

torchvision

torcharrow

TorchData

TorchRec

TorchServe

TorchX

PyTorch on XLA Devices

  * Resources 

About

Learn about PyTorch’s features and capabilities

PyTorch Foundation

Learn about the PyTorch foundation

Community

Join the PyTorch developer community to contribute, learn, and get your
questions answered.

Community Stories

Learn how our community solves real, everyday machine learning problems with
PyTorch.

Developer Resources

Find resources and get questions answered

Events

Find events, webinars, and podcasts

Forums

A place to discuss PyTorch code, issues, install, research

Models (Beta)

Discover, publish, and reuse pre-trained models

  * GitHub

Table of Contents

2.1 ▼

Community

  * PyTorch Governance | Build + CI
  * PyTorch Contribution Guide
  * PyTorch Design Philosophy
  * PyTorch Governance | Mechanics
  * PyTorch Governance | Maintainers

Developer Notes

  * CUDA Automatic Mixed Precision examples
  * Autograd mechanics
  * Broadcasting semantics
  * CPU threading and TorchScript inference
  * CUDA semantics
  * Distributed Data Parallel
  * Extending PyTorch
  * Extending torch.func with autograd.Function
  * Frequently Asked Questions
  * Gradcheck mechanics
  * HIP (ROCm) semantics
  * Features for large-scale deployments
  * Modules
  * MPS backend
  * Multiprocessing best practices
  * Numerical accuracy
  * Reproducibility
  * Serialization semantics
  * Windows FAQ

Language Bindings

  * C++
  * Javadoc
  * torch::deploy

Python API

  * torch
  * torch.nn
  * torch.nn.functional
  * torch.Tensor
  * Tensor Attributes
  * Tensor Views
  * torch.amp
  * torch.autograd
  * torch.library
  * torch.cpu
  * torch.cuda
  * Understanding CUDA Memory Usage
  * Generating a Snapshot
  * Using the visualizer
  * Snapshot API Reference
  * torch.mps
  * torch.backends
  * torch.export
  * torch.distributed
  * torch.distributed.algorithms.join
  * torch.distributed.elastic
  * torch.distributed.fsdp
  * torch.distributed.optim
  * torch.distributed.tensor.parallel
  * torch.distributed.checkpoint
  * torch.distributions
  * torch.compiler
  * torch.fft
  * torch.func
  * torch.futures
  * torch.fx
  * torch.hub
  * torch.jit
  * torch.linalg
  * torch.monitor
  * torch.signal
  * torch.special
  * torch.overrides
  * torch.package
  * torch.profiler
  * torch.nn.init
  * torch.onnx
  * torch.optim
  * Complex Numbers
  * DDP Communication Hooks
  * Pipeline Parallelism
  * Quantization
  * Distributed RPC Framework
  * torch.random
  * torch.masked
  * torch.nested
  * torch.sparse
  * torch.Storage
  * torch.testing
  * torch.utils
  * torch.utils.benchmark
  * torch.utils.bottleneck
  * torch.utils.checkpoint
  * torch.utils.cpp_extension
  * torch.utils.data
  * torch.utils.jit
  * torch.utils.dlpack
  * torch.utils.mobile_optimizer
  * torch.utils.model_zoo
  * torch.utils.tensorboard
  * Type Info
  * Named Tensors
  * Named Tensors operator coverage
  * torch.__config__
  * torch._logging

Libraries

  * torchaudio
  * TorchData
  * TorchRec
  * TorchServe
  * torchtext
  * torchvision
  * PyTorch on XLA Devices

  * Docs  >
  * torch >
  * torch.frombuffer
  * ![](../_static/images/view-page-source-icon.svg)

Shortcuts

# torch.frombuffer¶

torch.frombuffer( _buffer_ , _*_ , _dtype_ , _count =-1_, _offset =0_,
_requires_grad =False_) -> Tensor¶

    

Creates a 1-dimensional `Tensor` from an object that implements the Python
buffer protocol.

Skips the first `offset` bytes in the buffer, and interprets the rest of the
raw bytes as a 1-dimensional tensor of type `dtype` with `count` elements.

Note that either of the following must be true:

1\. `count` is a positive non-zero number, and the total number of bytes in
the buffer is less than `offset` plus `count` times the size (in bytes) of
`dtype`.

2\. `count` is negative, and the length (number of bytes) of the buffer
subtracted by the `offset` is a multiple of the size (in bytes) of `dtype`.

The returned tensor and buffer share the same memory. Modifications to the
tensor will be reflected in the buffer and vice versa. The returned tensor is
not resizable.

Note

This function increments the reference count for the object that owns the
shared memory. Therefore, such memory will not be deallocated before the
returned tensor goes out of scope.

Warning

This function’s behavior is undefined when passed an object implementing the
buffer protocol whose data is not on the CPU. Doing so is likely to cause a
segmentation fault.

Warning

This function does not try to infer the `dtype` (hence, it is not optional).
Passing a different `dtype` than its source may result in unexpected behavior.

Parameters

    

**buffer** ( _object_) – a Python object that exposes the buffer interface.

Keyword Arguments

    

  * **dtype** (`torch.dtype`) – the desired data type of returned tensor.

  * **count** ( _int_ _,_ _optional_ ) – the number of desired elements to be read. If negative, all the elements (until the end of the buffer) will be read. Default: -1.

  * **offset** ( _int_ _,_ _optional_ ) – the number of bytes to skip at the start of the buffer. Default: 0.

  * **requires_grad** ( _bool_ _,_ _optional_ ) – If autograd should record operations on the returned tensor. Default: `False`.

Example:

    
    
    >>> import array
    >>> a = array.array('i', [1, 2, 3])
    >>> t = torch.frombuffer(a, dtype=torch.int32)
    >>> t
    tensor([ 1,  2,  3])
    >>> t[0] = -1
    >>> a
    array([-1,  2,  3])
    
    >>> # Interprets the signed char bytes as 32-bit integers.
    >>> # Each 4 signed char elements will be interpreted as
    >>> # 1 signed 32-bit integer.
    >>> import array
    >>> a = array.array('b', [-1, 0, 0, 0])
    >>> torch.frombuffer(a, dtype=torch.int32)
    tensor([255], dtype=torch.int32)
    

Next ![](../_static/images/chevron-right-orange.svg)
![](../_static/images/chevron-right-orange.svg) Previous

* * *

(C) Copyright 2023, PyTorch Contributors.

Built with Sphinx using a theme provided by Read the Docs.

  * torch.frombuffer
    * `frombuffer()`

![](https://www.googleadservices.com/pagead/conversion/795629140/?label=txkmCPmdtosBENSssfsC&guid=ON&script=0)

## Docs

Access comprehensive developer documentation for PyTorch

View Docs

## Tutorials

Get in-depth tutorials for beginners and advanced developers

View Tutorials

## Resources

Find development resources and get your questions answered

View Resources

  * PyTorch
  * Get Started
  * Features
  * Ecosystem
  * Blog
  * Contributing

  * Resources
  * Tutorials
  * Docs
  * Discuss
  * Github Issues
  * Brand Guidelines

  * Stay up to date
  * Facebook
  * Twitter
  * YouTube
  * LinkedIn

  * PyTorch Podcasts
  * Spotify
  * Apple
  * Google
  * Amazon

  * Terms
  * |
  * Privacy

© Copyright The Linux Foundation. The PyTorch Foundation is a project of The
Linux Foundation. For web site terms of use, trademark policy and other
policies applicable to The PyTorch Foundation please see
www.linuxfoundation.org/policies/. The PyTorch Foundation supports the PyTorch
open source project, which has been established as PyTorch Project a Series of
LF Projects, LLC. For policies applicable to the PyTorch Project a Series of
LF Projects, LLC, please see www.lfprojects.org/policies/.

To analyze traffic and optimize your experience, we serve cookies on this
site. By clicking or navigating, you agree to allow our usage of cookies. As
the current maintainers of this site, Facebook’s Cookies Policy applies. Learn
more, including about available controls: Cookies Policy.

![](../_static/images/pytorch-x.svg)

  * Get Started
  * Ecosystem
  * Mobile
  * Blog
  * Tutorials
  * Docs 
    * PyTorch
    * torchaudio
    * torchtext
    * torchvision
    * torcharrow
    * TorchData
    * TorchRec
    * TorchServe
    * TorchX
    * PyTorch on XLA Devices
  * Resources 
    * About
    * PyTorch Foundation
    * Community
    * Community Stories
    * Developer Resources
    * Events
    * Forums
    * Models (Beta)
  * Github

