

  * Get Started
  * Ecosystem
  * Mobile
  * Blog
  * Tutorials
  * Docs 

PyTorch

torchaudio

torchtext

torchvision

torcharrow

TorchData

TorchRec

TorchServe

TorchX

PyTorch on XLA Devices

  * Resources 

About

Learn about PyTorch’s features and capabilities

PyTorch Foundation

Learn about the PyTorch foundation

Community

Join the PyTorch developer community to contribute, learn, and get your
questions answered.

Community Stories

Learn how our community solves real, everyday machine learning problems with
PyTorch.

Developer Resources

Find resources and get questions answered

Events

Find events, webinars, and podcasts

Forums

A place to discuss PyTorch code, issues, install, research

Models (Beta)

Discover, publish, and reuse pre-trained models

  * GitHub

Table of Contents

2.1 ▼

Community

  * PyTorch Governance | Build + CI
  * PyTorch Contribution Guide
  * PyTorch Design Philosophy
  * PyTorch Governance | Mechanics
  * PyTorch Governance | Maintainers

Developer Notes

  * CUDA Automatic Mixed Precision examples
  * Autograd mechanics
  * Broadcasting semantics
  * CPU threading and TorchScript inference
  * CUDA semantics
  * Distributed Data Parallel
  * Extending PyTorch
  * Extending torch.func with autograd.Function
  * Frequently Asked Questions
  * Gradcheck mechanics
  * HIP (ROCm) semantics
  * Features for large-scale deployments
  * Modules
  * MPS backend
  * Multiprocessing best practices
  * Numerical accuracy
  * Reproducibility
  * Serialization semantics
  * Windows FAQ

Language Bindings

  * C++
  * Javadoc
  * torch::deploy

Python API

  * torch
  * torch.nn
  * torch.nn.functional
  * torch.Tensor
  * Tensor Attributes
  * Tensor Views
  * torch.amp
  * torch.autograd
  * torch.library
  * torch.cpu
  * torch.cuda
  * Understanding CUDA Memory Usage
  * Generating a Snapshot
  * Using the visualizer
  * Snapshot API Reference
  * torch.mps
  * torch.backends
  * torch.export
  * torch.distributed
  * torch.distributed.algorithms.join
  * torch.distributed.elastic
  * torch.distributed.fsdp
  * torch.distributed.optim
  * torch.distributed.tensor.parallel
  * torch.distributed.checkpoint
  * torch.distributions
  * torch.compiler
  * torch.fft
  * torch.func
  * torch.futures
  * torch.fx
  * torch.hub
  * torch.jit
  * torch.linalg
  * torch.monitor
  * torch.signal
  * torch.special
  * torch.overrides
  * torch.package
  * torch.profiler
  * torch.nn.init
  * torch.onnx
  * torch.optim
  * Complex Numbers
  * DDP Communication Hooks
  * Pipeline Parallelism
  * Quantization
  * Distributed RPC Framework
  * torch.random
  * torch.masked
  * torch.nested
  * torch.sparse
  * torch.Storage
  * torch.testing
  * torch.utils
  * torch.utils.benchmark
  * torch.utils.bottleneck
  * torch.utils.checkpoint
  * torch.utils.cpp_extension
  * torch.utils.data
  * torch.utils.jit
  * torch.utils.dlpack
  * torch.utils.mobile_optimizer
  * torch.utils.model_zoo
  * torch.utils.tensorboard
  * Type Info
  * Named Tensors
  * Named Tensors operator coverage
  * torch.__config__
  * torch._logging

Libraries

  * torchaudio
  * TorchData
  * TorchRec
  * TorchServe
  * torchtext
  * torchvision
  * PyTorch on XLA Devices

  * Docs  >
  * torch.linalg >
  * torch.linalg.cond
  * ![](../_static/images/view-page-source-icon.svg)

Shortcuts

# torch.linalg.cond¶

torch.linalg.cond( _A_ , _p =None_, _*_ , _out =None_) -> Tensor¶

    

Computes the condition number of a matrix with respect to a matrix norm.

Letting K\mathbb{K}K be R\mathbb{R}R or C\mathbb{C}C, the **condition number**
κ\kappaκ of a matrix A∈Kn×nA \in \mathbb{K}^{n \times n}A∈Kn×n is defined as

κ(A)=∥A∥p∥A−1∥p\kappa(A) = \|A\|_p\|A^{-1}\|_pκ(A)=∥A∥p​∥A−1∥p​

The condition number of `A` measures the numerical stability of the linear
system AX = B with respect to a matrix norm.

Supports input of float, double, cfloat and cdouble dtypes. Also supports
batches of matrices, and if `A` is a batch of matrices then the output has the
same batch dimensions.

`p` defines the matrix norm that is computed. The following norms are
supported:

`p`

|

matrix norm  
  
---|---  
  
None

|

2-norm (largest singular value)  
  
‘fro’

|

Frobenius norm  
  
‘nuc’

|

nuclear norm  
  
inf

|

max(sum(abs(x), dim=1))  
  
-inf

|

min(sum(abs(x), dim=1))  
  
1

|

max(sum(abs(x), dim=0))  
  
-1

|

min(sum(abs(x), dim=0))  
  
2

|

largest singular value  
  
-2

|

smallest singular value  
  
where inf refers to float(‘inf’), NumPy’s inf object, or any equivalent
object.

For `p` is one of (‘fro’, ‘nuc’, inf, -inf, 1, -1), this function uses
`torch.linalg.norm()` and `torch.linalg.inv()`. As such, in this case, the
matrix (or every matrix in the batch) `A` has to be square and invertible.

For `p` in (2, -2), this function can be computed in terms of the singular
values σ1≥…≥σn\sigma_1 \geq \ldots \geq \sigma_nσ1​≥…≥σn​

κ2(A)=σ1σnκ−2(A)=σnσ1\kappa_2(A) = \frac{\sigma_1}{\sigma_n}\qquad
\kappa_{-2}(A) = \frac{\sigma_n}{\sigma_1}κ2​(A)=σn​σ1​​κ−2​(A)=σ1​σn​​

In these cases, it is computed using `torch.linalg.svdvals()`. For these
norms, the matrix (or every matrix in the batch) `A` may have any shape.

Note

When inputs are on a CUDA device, this function synchronizes that device with
the CPU if `p` is one of (‘fro’, ‘nuc’, inf, -inf, 1, -1).

See also

`torch.linalg.solve()` for a function that solves linear systems of square
matrices.

`torch.linalg.lstsq()` for a function that solves linear systems of general
matrices.

Parameters

    

  * **A** ( _Tensor_) – tensor of shape (*, m, n) where * is zero or more batch dimensions for `p` in (2, -2), and of shape (*, n, n) where every matrix is invertible for `p` in (‘fro’, ‘nuc’, inf, -inf, 1, -1).

  * **p** ( _int_ _,_ _inf_ _,_ _-inf_ _,_ _'fro'_ _,_ _'nuc'_ _,_ _optional_ ) – the type of the matrix norm to use in the computations (see above). Default: None

Keyword Arguments

    

**out** ( _Tensor_ _,_ _optional_ ) – output tensor. Ignored if None. Default:
None.

Returns

    

A real-valued tensor, even when `A` is complex.

Raises

    

**RuntimeError** – if `p` is one of (‘fro’, ‘nuc’, inf, -inf, 1, -1) and the
`A` matrix or any matrix in the batch `A` is not square or invertible.

Examples:

    
    
    >>> A = torch.randn(3, 4, 4, dtype=torch.complex64)
    >>> torch.linalg.cond(A)
    >>> A = torch.tensor([[1., 0, -1], [0, 1, 0], [1, 0, 1]])
    >>> torch.linalg.cond(A)
    tensor([1.4142])
    >>> torch.linalg.cond(A, 'fro')
    tensor(3.1623)
    >>> torch.linalg.cond(A, 'nuc')
    tensor(9.2426)
    >>> torch.linalg.cond(A, float('inf'))
    tensor(2.)
    >>> torch.linalg.cond(A, float('-inf'))
    tensor(1.)
    >>> torch.linalg.cond(A, 1)
    tensor(2.)
    >>> torch.linalg.cond(A, -1)
    tensor(1.)
    >>> torch.linalg.cond(A, 2)
    tensor([1.4142])
    >>> torch.linalg.cond(A, -2)
    tensor([0.7071])
    
    >>> A = torch.randn(2, 3, 3)
    >>> torch.linalg.cond(A)
    tensor([[9.5917],
            [3.2538]])
    >>> A = torch.randn(2, 3, 3, dtype=torch.complex64)
    >>> torch.linalg.cond(A)
    tensor([[4.6245],
            [4.5671]])
    

Next ![](../_static/images/chevron-right-orange.svg)
![](../_static/images/chevron-right-orange.svg) Previous

* * *

(C) Copyright 2023, PyTorch Contributors.

Built with Sphinx using a theme provided by Read the Docs.

  * torch.linalg.cond
    * `cond()`

![](https://www.googleadservices.com/pagead/conversion/795629140/?label=txkmCPmdtosBENSssfsC&guid=ON&script=0)

## Docs

Access comprehensive developer documentation for PyTorch

View Docs

## Tutorials

Get in-depth tutorials for beginners and advanced developers

View Tutorials

## Resources

Find development resources and get your questions answered

View Resources

  * PyTorch
  * Get Started
  * Features
  * Ecosystem
  * Blog
  * Contributing

  * Resources
  * Tutorials
  * Docs
  * Discuss
  * Github Issues
  * Brand Guidelines

  * Stay up to date
  * Facebook
  * Twitter
  * YouTube
  * LinkedIn

  * PyTorch Podcasts
  * Spotify
  * Apple
  * Google
  * Amazon

  * Terms
  * |
  * Privacy

© Copyright The Linux Foundation. The PyTorch Foundation is a project of The
Linux Foundation. For web site terms of use, trademark policy and other
policies applicable to The PyTorch Foundation please see
www.linuxfoundation.org/policies/. The PyTorch Foundation supports the PyTorch
open source project, which has been established as PyTorch Project a Series of
LF Projects, LLC. For policies applicable to the PyTorch Project a Series of
LF Projects, LLC, please see www.lfprojects.org/policies/.

To analyze traffic and optimize your experience, we serve cookies on this
site. By clicking or navigating, you agree to allow our usage of cookies. As
the current maintainers of this site, Facebook’s Cookies Policy applies. Learn
more, including about available controls: Cookies Policy.

![](../_static/images/pytorch-x.svg)

  * Get Started
  * Ecosystem
  * Mobile
  * Blog
  * Tutorials
  * Docs 
    * PyTorch
    * torchaudio
    * torchtext
    * torchvision
    * torcharrow
    * TorchData
    * TorchRec
    * TorchServe
    * TorchX
    * PyTorch on XLA Devices
  * Resources 
    * About
    * PyTorch Foundation
    * Community
    * Community Stories
    * Developer Resources
    * Events
    * Forums
    * Models (Beta)
  * Github

