

  * Get Started
  * Ecosystem
  * Mobile
  * Blog
  * Tutorials
  * Docs 

PyTorch

torchaudio

torchtext

torchvision

torcharrow

TorchData

TorchRec

TorchServe

TorchX

PyTorch on XLA Devices

  * Resources 

About

Learn about PyTorch’s features and capabilities

PyTorch Foundation

Learn about the PyTorch foundation

Community

Join the PyTorch developer community to contribute, learn, and get your
questions answered.

Community Stories

Learn how our community solves real, everyday machine learning problems with
PyTorch.

Developer Resources

Find resources and get questions answered

Events

Find events, webinars, and podcasts

Forums

A place to discuss PyTorch code, issues, install, research

Models (Beta)

Discover, publish, and reuse pre-trained models

  * GitHub

Table of Contents

2.1 ▼

Community

  * PyTorch Governance | Build + CI
  * PyTorch Contribution Guide
  * PyTorch Design Philosophy
  * PyTorch Governance | Mechanics
  * PyTorch Governance | Maintainers

Developer Notes

  * CUDA Automatic Mixed Precision examples
  * Autograd mechanics
  * Broadcasting semantics
  * CPU threading and TorchScript inference
  * CUDA semantics
  * Distributed Data Parallel
  * Extending PyTorch
  * Extending torch.func with autograd.Function
  * Frequently Asked Questions
  * Gradcheck mechanics
  * HIP (ROCm) semantics
  * Features for large-scale deployments
  * Modules
  * MPS backend
  * Multiprocessing best practices
  * Numerical accuracy
  * Reproducibility
  * Serialization semantics
  * Windows FAQ

Language Bindings

  * C++
  * Javadoc
  * torch::deploy

Python API

  * torch
  * torch.nn
  * torch.nn.functional
  * torch.Tensor
  * Tensor Attributes
  * Tensor Views
  * torch.amp
  * torch.autograd
  * torch.library
  * torch.cpu
  * torch.cuda
  * Understanding CUDA Memory Usage
  * Generating a Snapshot
  * Using the visualizer
  * Snapshot API Reference
  * torch.mps
  * torch.backends
  * torch.export
  * torch.distributed
  * torch.distributed.algorithms.join
  * torch.distributed.elastic
  * torch.distributed.fsdp
  * torch.distributed.optim
  * torch.distributed.tensor.parallel
  * torch.distributed.checkpoint
  * torch.distributions
  * torch.compiler
  * torch.fft
  * torch.func
  * torch.futures
  * torch.fx
  * torch.hub
  * torch.jit
  * torch.linalg
  * torch.monitor
  * torch.signal
  * torch.special
  * torch.overrides
  * torch.package
  * torch.profiler
  * torch.nn.init
  * torch.onnx
  * torch.optim
  * Complex Numbers
  * DDP Communication Hooks
  * Pipeline Parallelism
  * Quantization
  * Distributed RPC Framework
  * torch.random
  * torch.masked
  * torch.nested
  * torch.sparse
  * torch.Storage
  * torch.testing
  * torch.utils
  * torch.utils.benchmark
  * torch.utils.bottleneck
  * torch.utils.checkpoint
  * torch.utils.cpp_extension
  * torch.utils.data
  * torch.utils.jit
  * torch.utils.dlpack
  * torch.utils.mobile_optimizer
  * torch.utils.model_zoo
  * torch.utils.tensorboard
  * Type Info
  * Named Tensors
  * Named Tensors operator coverage
  * torch.__config__
  * torch._logging

Libraries

  * torchaudio
  * TorchData
  * TorchRec
  * TorchServe
  * torchtext
  * torchvision
  * PyTorch on XLA Devices

  * Docs  >
  * torch.linalg >
  * torch.linalg.matrix_rank
  * ![](../_static/images/view-page-source-icon.svg)

Shortcuts

# torch.linalg.matrix_rank¶

torch.linalg.matrix_rank( _A_ , _*_ , _atol =None_, _rtol =None_, _hermitian
=False_, _out =None_) -> Tensor¶

    

Computes the numerical rank of a matrix.

The matrix rank is computed as the number of singular values (or eigenvalues
in absolute value when `hermitian`= True) that are greater than
max⁡(atol,σ1∗rtol)\max(\text{atol}, \sigma_1 * \text{rtol})max(atol,σ1​∗rtol)
threshold, where σ1\sigma_1σ1​ is the largest singular value (or eigenvalue).

Supports input of float, double, cfloat and cdouble dtypes. Also supports
batches of matrices, and if `A` is a batch of matrices then the output has the
same batch dimensions.

If `hermitian`= True, `A` is assumed to be Hermitian if complex or symmetric
if real, but this is not checked internally. Instead, just the lower
triangular part of the matrix is used in the computations.

If `rtol` is not specified and `A` is a matrix of dimensions (m, n), the
relative tolerance is set to be rtol=max⁡(m,n)ε\text{rtol} = \max(m, n)
\varepsilonrtol=max(m,n)ε and ε\varepsilonε is the epsilon value for the dtype
of `A` (see `finfo`). If `rtol` is not specified and `atol` is specified to be
larger than zero then `rtol` is set to zero.

If `atol` or `rtol` is a `torch.Tensor`, its shape must be broadcastable to
that of the singular values of `A` as returned by `torch.linalg.svdvals()`.

Note

This function has NumPy compatible variant linalg.matrix_rank(A, tol,
hermitian=False). However, use of the positional argument `tol` is deprecated
in favor of `atol` and `rtol`.

Note

The matrix rank is computed using a singular value decomposition
`torch.linalg.svdvals()` if `hermitian`= False (default) and the eigenvalue
decomposition `torch.linalg.eigvalsh()` when `hermitian`= True. When inputs
are on a CUDA device, this function synchronizes that device with the CPU.

Parameters

    

  * **A** ( _Tensor_) – tensor of shape (*, m, n) where * is zero or more batch dimensions.

  * **tol** ( _float_ _,_ _Tensor_ _,_ _optional_ ) – [NumPy Compat] Alias for `atol`. Default: None.

Keyword Arguments

    

  * **atol** ( _float_ _,_ _Tensor_ _,_ _optional_ ) – the absolute tolerance value. When None it’s considered to be zero. Default: None.

  * **rtol** ( _float_ _,_ _Tensor_ _,_ _optional_ ) – the relative tolerance value. See above for the value it takes when None. Default: None.

  * **hermitian** ( _bool_) – indicates whether `A` is Hermitian if complex or symmetric if real. Default: False.

  * **out** ( _Tensor_ _,_ _optional_ ) – output tensor. Ignored if None. Default: None.

Examples:

    
    
    >>> A = torch.eye(10)
    >>> torch.linalg.matrix_rank(A)
    tensor(10)
    >>> B = torch.eye(10)
    >>> B[0, 0] = 0
    >>> torch.linalg.matrix_rank(B)
    tensor(9)
    
    >>> A = torch.randn(4, 3, 2)
    >>> torch.linalg.matrix_rank(A)
    tensor([2, 2, 2, 2])
    
    >>> A = torch.randn(2, 4, 2, 3)
    >>> torch.linalg.matrix_rank(A)
    tensor([[2, 2, 2, 2],
            [2, 2, 2, 2]])
    
    >>> A = torch.randn(2, 4, 3, 3, dtype=torch.complex64)
    >>> torch.linalg.matrix_rank(A)
    tensor([[3, 3, 3, 3],
            [3, 3, 3, 3]])
    >>> torch.linalg.matrix_rank(A, hermitian=True)
    tensor([[3, 3, 3, 3],
            [3, 3, 3, 3]])
    >>> torch.linalg.matrix_rank(A, atol=1.0, rtol=0.0)
    tensor([[3, 2, 2, 2],
            [1, 2, 1, 2]])
    >>> torch.linalg.matrix_rank(A, atol=1.0, rtol=0.0, hermitian=True)
    tensor([[2, 2, 2, 1],
            [1, 2, 2, 2]])
    

Next ![](../_static/images/chevron-right-orange.svg)
![](../_static/images/chevron-right-orange.svg) Previous

* * *

(C) Copyright 2023, PyTorch Contributors.

Built with Sphinx using a theme provided by Read the Docs.

  * torch.linalg.matrix_rank
    * `matrix_rank()`

![](https://www.googleadservices.com/pagead/conversion/795629140/?label=txkmCPmdtosBENSssfsC&guid=ON&script=0)

## Docs

Access comprehensive developer documentation for PyTorch

View Docs

## Tutorials

Get in-depth tutorials for beginners and advanced developers

View Tutorials

## Resources

Find development resources and get your questions answered

View Resources

  * PyTorch
  * Get Started
  * Features
  * Ecosystem
  * Blog
  * Contributing

  * Resources
  * Tutorials
  * Docs
  * Discuss
  * Github Issues
  * Brand Guidelines

  * Stay up to date
  * Facebook
  * Twitter
  * YouTube
  * LinkedIn

  * PyTorch Podcasts
  * Spotify
  * Apple
  * Google
  * Amazon

  * Terms
  * |
  * Privacy

© Copyright The Linux Foundation. The PyTorch Foundation is a project of The
Linux Foundation. For web site terms of use, trademark policy and other
policies applicable to The PyTorch Foundation please see
www.linuxfoundation.org/policies/. The PyTorch Foundation supports the PyTorch
open source project, which has been established as PyTorch Project a Series of
LF Projects, LLC. For policies applicable to the PyTorch Project a Series of
LF Projects, LLC, please see www.lfprojects.org/policies/.

To analyze traffic and optimize your experience, we serve cookies on this
site. By clicking or navigating, you agree to allow our usage of cookies. As
the current maintainers of this site, Facebook’s Cookies Policy applies. Learn
more, including about available controls: Cookies Policy.

![](../_static/images/pytorch-x.svg)

  * Get Started
  * Ecosystem
  * Mobile
  * Blog
  * Tutorials
  * Docs 
    * PyTorch
    * torchaudio
    * torchtext
    * torchvision
    * torcharrow
    * TorchData
    * TorchRec
    * TorchServe
    * TorchX
    * PyTorch on XLA Devices
  * Resources 
    * About
    * PyTorch Foundation
    * Community
    * Community Stories
    * Developer Resources
    * Events
    * Forums
    * Models (Beta)
  * Github

